Measurements have been made of the dark-adapted foveal threshold of normal and colorblind persons in five parts of the spectrum using a 1 degrees circular test field. Compared to normals, protanopes (red-blinds) show an elevation of the threshold which increases slowly from blue to yellow and rises rapidly thereafter until in the red the threshold is more than ten times as high as normal. Deuteranopes (green-blinds) do not show so high an elevation, their maximum in the green being only about 70 per cent above normal. These threshold elevations correspond to luminosity losses in the spectrum. For the protanope the total loss in the spectrum is nearly one-half of the normal luminosity; for the deuteranope it is nearly two-fifths of normal. Such losses support the idea that colorblindness corresponds to the loss of one of the three receptor systems usually postulated to account for normal color vision. However, the color sensations reported by colorblind persons, especially monocular colorblinds, do not support the idea of a lost or inactivated receptor system. A fresh explanation for colorblindness is called for to reconcile these conflicting kinds of evidence.
Desoxycorticosterone acetate (DCA) and NaCl, in the dosage employed in normal rats, caused renal and cardiac hypertrophy, characteristic changes in the renal tubular epithelium, atrophic changes in the subcapsular zone of the adrenal cortex, and serum electrolyte changes characterized by a rise in sodium and fall in potassium. In rats rendered nephritic with a rabbit anti-rat-kidney serum, the same regimen caused similar changes. In addition, DCA given concurrently with NaCl greatly intensified the nephritic process and gave rise to striking arterial hypertension. A diet, virtually sodium-free, administered to normal and nephritic rats receiving daily injections of DCA abolished or reduced to a minimum the effects of this steroid; i.e., a liberal ingestion of NaCl was essential for the potentiation of the action of DCA. The addition of KCl to the drinking water of rats receiving DCA and NaCl tended to correct the depression of the level of potassium in the serum, but had no effect upon the hypertension in nephritic animals nor upon the anatomical lesions. The mechanism by which the sodium ion potentiates the activity of DCA has not been established.
The peripheral ganglia of eighteen inoculated chimpanzees and thirteen uninoculated controls, and of eighteen fatal human poliomyelitis cases, were studied for histopathological evidence of the route of transmission of virus from the alimentary tract to the CNS. Lesions thought to be characteristic of poliomyelitis in inoculated chimpanzees could not be sharply differentiated from lesions of unknown origin in uninoculated control animals. Moreover, although the inoculated animals as a group, in comparison with the control animals, had a greater number of infiltrative lesions in sympathetic as well as in sensory ganglia, it was not possible to make satisfactory correlations between the distribution of these lesions and the routes of inoculation. In sharp contrast with chimpanzees, the celiac and stellate ganglia of the human poliomyelitis cases were free of any but insignificant infiltrative lesions. Lesions in human trigeminal and spinal sensory ganglia included neuronal damage as well as focal and perivascular inflitrative lesions, as is well known. In most ganglia, as in monkey and chimpanzee sensory ganglia, these were correlated in intensify with the degree of severity of lesions in the region of the CNS receiving their axons. This suggested that lesions in sensory ganglia probably resulted from spread of virus centrifugally from the CNS, in accord with considerable experimental evidence. Two principal difficulties in the interpretation of histopathological findings in peripheral ganglia were revealed by this study. The first is that the specificity of lesions in sympathetic ganglia has not been established beyond doubt as being due to poliomyelitis. The second is that the presence of characteristic lesions in sensory ganglia does not, and cannot, reveal whether the virus reached the ganglia from the periphery or from the central nervous system, except in very early preparalytic stages or in exceptional cases of early arrest of virus spread and of lesion production.
Of fourteen patients with type b H. influenzae infections treated with streptomycin alone ten recovered promptly; in three of the four remaining cases failure was proved to be due to emergence of resistance of the organisms to streptomycin. The rapid development of resistance to 1000 units of streptomycin per cc. during treatment argues against metabolic adaptation of the bacteria. Careful study of large samples of initial bacterial populations shows resistant members in all ten strains examined. The incidence varies from 1 in 1.1 billion to 1 in 13.8 billion organisms. The proportion of resistant members is not significantly higher, before treatment, in patients who do poorly than in those who respond promptly. The results indicate that emergence of resistance is the result of a selective process; after elimination of sensitive members the very few resistant ones, apparently present in all strains, make up most or all of the population in the cultures taken after commencement of treatment. The survival of organisms which can grow in high concentrations of streptomycin, either in patients or in vitro, is influenced more by the size of the bacterial population than by any other known factor. Since the bacterial population is relatively small in those patients with mild or moderately severe infections the likelihood of a significant number of very resistant members being present is remote. The traits responsible for resistance of the organisms are apparently inherited: The resistant state of one strain has been transmitted in vitro without change in degree through over one hundred subcultures in the absence of streptomycin, Persistence of resistant organisms in the nasopharynx of one patient during a one year period raises an important public health problem.
Discrete bodies which may be designated cytochondria occupy the greater part of the cytoplasm of liver cells. A part, but not all, of these bodies have the characteristics of mitochondria. They consist of a rim which stains deeply and a central part which stains faintly or remains unstained. In liver cells about portal spaces, in foci of regeneration, and in tumor cells the rims of the cytochondria stain with basic dyes and contain ribonucleic acid or related substances. With increasing accumulation of basophile substances about cytochondria as the central veins are approached, these bodies aggregate to form clumps or orient themselves with palisade-like arrangment in two rows just within the margins of the liver cell columns. With aggregation of the cytochondria that are surrounded by basophile material, other cytochondria in the same cells are devoid of this material and wholly acidophile. With chromatolysis (disappearance of basophile substance) caused by dimethylaminoazobeiizene (butter yellow) cytochondria lose their peripheral basophilia and stain only with acid dyes. When ribonucleic acid is removed from fixed liver tissue by ribonuclease, cytochondria lose their affinity for basic stains and become acidophile. Of the cytochondria that are surrounded by ribonucleic acid or related substances part have the characteristics of mitochondria. Under the influence of butter yellow cytochondria may become greatly swollen and intensely acidophile in the center though they retain their basophile rim. These swollen bodies in part at least have the reactions of mitochondria. In tumor cells of hepatomas mitochondria are smaller and less abundant than in parenchymatous cells of the liver, and accompanying them are bodies of similar size which do not react as mitochondria. The cytochondria of hepatomas produced by butter yellow undergo acidophile degeneration similar to that of liver cells and form swollen spherical bodies with basophile rims. With partial or complete loss of basophile substance, these altered cytochondria may form conspicuous cell inclusions.
A relatively small amount of penicillin sufficed to abort syphilitic infection in rabbits when administered during the incubation period of the disease. The abortive dose, given as a single intramuscular injection in oil and beeswax, varied with the age of the infection. With a fixed intratesticular inoculum, the amount of penicillin necessary to prevent infection in half the animals remained at a constant level for 4 days. By the end of the 2nd week more than seven times this dosage was needed; and by the 6th week, after the chancre had appeared, more than thirty times the amount was needed to obtain the same result. The progressive increase in the abortive dose of penicillin with the passage of time probably reflects the interim multiplication of organisms. Qualitatively similar results were obtained in rabbits inoculated intracutaneously. The abortive dose varied also with the size of the inoculum. In animals inoculated intracutaneously with 20, 2,000, and 200,000 spirochetes, and treated 4 days later, it required 200, 500, and 3,500 units per kg., respectively, to protect half the animals, and the corresponding PD(90) dosages were 500, 2,000, and 16,000 units per kg. The present observations, indicating the ease of aborting experimental rabbit syphilis during the incubation period by a single injection of penicillin, are perhaps applicable to the prevention of the disease in man. Asymptomatic infections were rare in animals receiving inadequate doses of penicillin during the incubation period. Sixty-four of sixty-five such animals developed darkfield-positive lesions at the inoculated site. In animals treated 6 weeks after inoculation, however, after the development of lesions, inadequate treatment was usually manifested by an asymptomatic redissemination of organisms demonstrable only by lymph node transfer. The difference in the two groups probably reflects the beginning development of immunity in the rabbits treated 6 weeks after inoculation. As suggested by Rake and Dunham (11), the treatment of animals during the incubation period permits a rapid assay of antisyphilitic agents, and one which requires only small amounts of material. Possible limitations of the method are discussed in the text.
Methylene blue (MB) and toluidine blue (TB) when administered in maximum tolerated oral doses to mice and to cotton rats are highly effective in preventing the usual lethal outcome of intraperitoneally induced infections with R. orientalis. This activity is manifest even when dye administration is delayed until a systemic infection has been well established. Methylene blue is also effective in cerebral infections in mice. The toxicity of MB, however, limits parenteral (subcutaneous) administration of the dye to dosage levels which are much less effective than the maximum tolerated oral levels. The inability of mice to tolerate an adequately effective parenteral dose of MB suggests that the properties of the dye responsible for its toxicity may be separated from those upon which its antirickettsial effect depends. The relationship between the response of mice to oral treatment with MB and such factors as the size of the infecting dose and the times of initiation and of withdrawal of treatment may be summarized as follows: With a constant infecting dose, the time of initiation of treatment largely determines the degree of therapeutic effect. The interval after infection beyond which further treatment does not increase the survival rate depends not upon the previous duration of treatment but upon the size of the infecting dose. Paradoxically, treatment can be discontinued sooner after a massive infecting dose than after a smaller one.
Groups of normal rabbits were given, single intravenous injections of foreign proteins in doses of 1 gm. per kilo, bled at regular intervals for serologic studies, and sacrificed after varying lengths of time for pathological studies. The protein solutions used were of crystallized bovine serum albumin, bovine serum gamma globulin, and bovine serum. The experiments were planned, first, to correlate the sequence of pathological and immunological changes, and second, to compare the responses to two chemically and immunologically distinct plasma protein fractions and to the whole serum of the same species. The principal pathological lesions in rabbits given bovine serum were similar to those which have been previously observed following, the injection of horse serum and were characterized by widely dispersed but segmental acute inflammatory lesions of the arteries. These lesions were at their height 2 weeks after injection and showed marked repair at 4 weeks. Crystallized bovine serum albumin produced lesions almost exclusively confined to the arteries which were at their height at 2 weeks, were healing at 3, and healed by 4 weeks. The lesions were less numerous and less intense than in animals given whole serum and were only found in some of the animals. Bovine serum gamma globulin elicited quite different histologic sequences. The most striking lesions involved the glomeruli of the kidneys, and to a lesser degree, the heart. Lesions in the liver and joints were present but less conspicuous, and arterial lesions were rare and slight in degree. The lesions not only differed from those in rabbits given albumin in distribution but in timing, since they were most widespread and acute at 1 week and were healing at 2 weeks after injection. Moreover, lesions were observed in almost every animal. Results of immunological studies were consistent with the interpretation that the pathological lesions were due to an antigen-antibody reaction in the tissues, as shown by the following: Acute lesions were only observed when antigen was present and before antibody appeared in the circulation. Healing of lesions was only observed (with one exception) when antigen had almost or completely disappeared from the circulation, usually with the appearance of antibody. There was a correlation between the rapidity of evolution of the lesions and the rapidity with which the antigen disappeared from the circulation. There was a rough correlation between the proportion of animals showing lesions and the proportion developing antibodies after the injection of a particular protein solution.
By a study of plasma esterase in various hypoproteinemic states information was gained concerning the synthesis of a protein by the liver, which may be applicable to the problem of albumin synthesis. Patients with infectious hepatitis and cirrhosis showed defective formation of plasma esterase that paralleled the defect in albumin formation. The defect could only be altered in patients with cirrhosis by very prolonged therapy indicating that liver function itself had to improve before the proteins could be formed in a normal manner. Patients with the nephrotic syndrome showed a normal or hypernormal formation of plasma esterase. Following spontaneous remissions or the administration of albumin the esterase level showed a marked rise which was in direct contrast to the difficult alterability of the enzyme level in patients with severe liver involvement. It is suggested that the defect in protein synthesis by patients with the nephrotic syndrome may be due to the lack of certain essential materials, one of which may be albumin itself, rather than to any abnormality in the liver.
Severe and persistent impairment of kidney function has been produced in dogs by intravascular hemolysis due to arsine, or by the intravenous injection of solutions of dog hemoglobin and methemoglobin. The kidneys of these animals have been examined by the usual histological methods and also by means of the ferrocyanide histochemical method to determine the pathogenesis of the renal injury. These observations indicate that obstruction to flow of urine through the renal tubules is an important factor in the early reduction of kidney function. The material filling the lumina of the renal tubules was found to be chiefly methemoglobin in concentrated solution of gel-like consistency. No evidence of formation of a pigment insoluble at the pH of the urine such as hemochromogen or hematin was found. The cessation of urine flow is most readily explained by the increased viscosity of the tubule contents. The intravenous administration of methemoglobin was found to produce more severe renal injury than the injection of equal amounts of oxyhemoglobin. Necrosis of the proximal convoluted tubule cells was present as a late lesion in animals injected with methemoglobin, large amounts of hemoglobin, or following extensive intravascular hemolysis. Such injury is probably a contributing factor in the persistent severe depression of renal function seen in these animals. Following disappearance of most of the intratubular pigment, a large number of collapsed tubules lined by hemosiderin-filled cells were found. The ferrocyanide histochemical studies indicated that these represented non-functioning nephrons although no obstructing intratubular material was present. Direct measurements in two animals failed to reveal any reduction of renal blood flow following the injection of methemoglobin in amounts sufficient to produce renal injury.
An ovary placed in the spleen of an animal that has one normal ovary undergoes atrophy that starts as early as 24 days after transplantation. Severe atrophy is reached before 55 days, and subsequent changes are minor. The degree of atrophy is almost as intense as that noted in the hypophysectomized castrate animal with an ovarian transplant in the spleen (2). The transplanted ovary shows no evidence of any type of response to the hormonal influence that has stimulated the ovary that remained in situ. Removal of the normal ovary introduces the hormonal imbalance that was present in the original tumor animals. The atrophic ovarian parenchyma in the spleen in these, as well as in the hypophysectomized animals previously reported, retained its growth potentials and responded to the hormonal forces by assuming the changes that characterized the development of the luteoma. The action of the atrophic ovarian parenchyma is reminiscent of malignant cell deposits that may remain dormant or quiescent for long periods and then, for some unknown reason, suddenly undergo growth.
Proteinuria in normal dogs can be produced at will by parenteral injections of dog plasma. As the plasma injections are continued the plasma protein concentration rises and at some point protein begins to appear in the urine. The level of plasma protein concentration at which proteinuria appears in normal dogs ranges from 9.6 to 10.4 gm. per cent. This may be termed the renal threshold for proteinuria. Repeat experiments in the same dog show threshold levels to be practically identical. An interval of days (4 to 26 days) has been noted between the start of plasma protein injections and the appearance of the proteinuria. Larger doses of plasma shorten this interval and the critical plasma protein level is attained sooner. Considerable amounts of protein may appear in the urine-298 gm. protein during a 52 day period in one instance studied-yet the urine clears in 1 to 4 days after cessation of protein injections. Autopsy shows undamaged kidneys. Maximal levels of plasma protein concentration range from 10.0 to 11.5 gm. per cent. The highest levels are usually associated with maximal output of protein in the urine. It seems clear that plasma proteins readily pass cell barriers (or membranes) within the body, including the endothelium and epithelium of the renal glomerulus.
Proteinuria in normal dogs can be produced at will by parenteral injections of dog plasma. As the plasma injections are continued the plasma protein concentration rises and at some point protein begins to appear in the urine. The level of plasma protein concentration at which proteinuria appears in normal dogs ranges from 9.6 to 10.4 gm. per cent. This may be termed the renal threshold for proteinuria. Repeat experiments in the same dog show threshold levels to be practically identical. An interval of days (4 to 26 days) has been noted between the start of plasma protein injections and the appearance of the proteinuria. Larger doses of plasma shorten this interval and the critical plasma protein level is attained sooner. Considerable amounts of protein may appear in the urine-298 gm. protein during a 52 day period in one instance studied-yet the urine clears in 1 to 4 days after cessation of protein injections. Autopsy shows undamaged kidneys. Maximal levels of plasma protein concentration range from 10.0 to 11.5 gm. per cent. The highest levels are usually associated with maximal output of protein in the urine. It seems clear that plasma proteins readily pass cell barriers (or membranes) within the body, including the endothelium and epithelium of the renal glomerulus.
At intervals from 2 to 11 weeks after normal rabbits had inhaled small numbers of virulent bovine tubercle bacilli as separated cells in droplet nuclei, groups of these animals received a single exposure to reinfection during which each animal inhaled about 20,000 separated bacilli. Normal control rabbits which inhaled this large number of bacilli died within 4 weeks thereafter. Their deaths were attributed to destruction of the lungs by developing initial tubercles. Eleven of 12 rabbits which were reinfected within 4 weeks after initial infection seemed to respond as normal animals. Their lungs were largely replaced by developing reinfection tubercles when they died or were killed within 32 days after reinfection. The inflammatory response of the reinfection tubercles was not consistently different from that of initial tubercles, although reinfection tubercles contained fewer bacilli than initial lesions of the same age. Within 5 weeks after initial infection rabbits apparently had developed immunity to reinfection with virulent bovine tubercle bacilli inhaled as separated cells in droplet nuclei. In some of them, however, exposure to massive inhaled reinfection seemed to stimulate the progress of initial infection. It is suggested that in rabbits the development of resistance to tubercle bacilli does not bear a linear relationship to time, but progresses in steps and within 5 weeks after small initial infection by inhalation is adequate to prevent the growth of separated bacilli when these are deposited upon alveolar walls. It is suggested also that the basic effect of acquired resistance of rabbits to tubercle bacilli is inhibition of multiplication of the bacilli.
Epithelial cells from spontaneous and transplanted mammary adenocarcinomas developing in high-tumor strain C(3)H mice have been grown in vitro and studied with the electron microscope. In preparations from three out of six tumors, an unusual particulate body has been found associated with the cells. The particles appear to have a spherical shape and a double structure consisting of a dense center and less dense outer zone. The diameter of the central dense portion is fairly uniform from particle to particle, averaging approximately 75 mmicro, whereas the outside, whole particle diameter is more variable and averages about 130 mmicro. From the micrographs it would appear that these peculiar virus-like bodies are situated chiefly in the ectoplasmic portion of the cell. They may occur singly, in pairs, or in clumps of varying sizes. Cells containing great numbers of the particles show signs of degeneration, and cell fragments are frequently encountered with many particles on them. So far, the particles have been found only in association with the epithelial cells of the cultures. They are apparently not derived from the culture media. All in all the findings are consonant with the view that the particles represent the milk agent. Further evidence for or against this assumption is being sought from a study of cells from normal tissue and tumors demonstrated to be agent-free.
Human sera taken at various stages of mumps have been analyzed in regard to their reactivity with two serologically distinct complement fixation antigens which were derived from the infected chick embryo. Antibodies to the soluble or S antigen appear earlier in the disease and, as a rule, reach high levels before antibodies against the virus-bound or V antigen commence to rise. In early convalescence, both antibodies reach high levels. Subsequently antibodies against the S antigen decrease usually at a faster rate than those against V, so that after a period of several years, frequently only anti-V may be left. These findings were found helpful in diagnostic procedures. The use of both the V and S antigens has permitted the early diagnosis of manifestations of mumps in the absence of parotitis, such as meningoencephalitis, since the finding of high levels of anti-S and of low titers of, or no, anti-V is considered diagnostically significant for the first few days of illness. For the determination of resistance the use of the V antigen appears more useful. Following vaccination or skin testing, antibodies against both antigens may develop; those against V increase more regularly and to higher titers than those against S.
A new experimental procedure for the production of arteriosclerosis in the bird is described. The subcutaneous implantation of diethylstilbestrol by means of which a sustained increase in the concentration of cholesterol, phospholipid, and neutral fat can be readily established, is shown to induce atherosclerosis of the aorta. The atherosclerosis has been compared with that artificially induced in the bird by the prolonged feeding of cholesterol and also with that occurring spontaneously. The stilbestrol-induced lesion more closely resembled the spontaneously occurring one in the bird than did that produced by cholesterol feeding. But all 3 lesions were fundamentally similar, differing only in the amounts and proportions of the various lipid constituents present. The concentrations of cholesterol in plasma of the stilbestrol-treated and cholesterol-fed birds were of the same order. Yet cholesterol constituted a greater proportion of the lipids deposited in the arterial wall of the cholesterol-fed than in that of the stilbestrol-treated birds. This finding suggests that the cholesterol content of the vascular lesion depends not only on the absolute concentration of cholesterol in plasma, but also on the proportion of cholesterol to other lipid constituents in plasma.
Five groups of 10 rabbits each were injected intravenously 2 times at 15 day intervals with either whole horse serum or one of its cold alcohol-precipitated fractions. Suitable serological and general observations were made at appropriate intervals before and after each injection. All animals were sacrificed on the 22nd day of the experiment. A study of the antemortem and pathological findings led to the following conclusions. Allergie arteritis, valvulitis, and to a lesser degree, focal pericarditis, Aschoff-like nodules, and glomerulitis can be produced by several of the cold alcohol-precipitated fractions of horse serum as well as by whole serum. Most of the acute arteritis was seen in rabbits receiving fraction V (albumin). These rabbits showed the largest amounts of circulating antigen, low antibody titers, low tissue sensitivity, and slight elevation in sedimentation rate and temperature. There was a high incidence of chronic arteritis in the rabbits receiving fraction III which is almost devoid of albumin, suggesting that the alpha and beta globulins in addition to albumin may produce arteritis. A state most nearly resembling that of acute rheumatic fever was produced by either fractions III or IV-3,4 (alpha and beta globulins). Pancarditis (pericarditis, Aschoff-like lesions, and valvulitis) was found relatively frequently. Many of the rabbits developed a high sedimentation rate, elevated temperature, and high tissue sensitivity, but little acute arteritis was found in this group. Gamma globulin (fraction II) produced little reaction either in the antemortem determinations or histopathologically. Glomerulitis of an acute necrotizing type was seen in a few rabbits without particular correlation to the fraction injected. The frequency of involvement of heart valves in rabbit serum disease follows a pattern very similar to that of rheumatic heart disesae. Attempts to correlate antemortem observations and pathological findings either on a group basis or for individual animals failed.
A shortened esophagus is probably acquired, rather than congenital, in the great majority of cases. The process by which the shortening develops, as described by Allison and his coworkers, begins with esophageal hiatal hernia, followed by esophagitis caused by the irritation of acids from the stomach, then recurrent ulceration and healing which forms scar tissue which little by little shortens the esophagus. Obesity and relaxation of the supporting musculotendinous structures which accompany advancing years probably are contributory factors in production of esophageal hiatal hernia. Fifteen of a series of 18 patients noted the onset of symptoms on or after the age of Roentgen examination of the esophagus and stomach is indispensable in establishing a diagnosis of acquired short esophagus. Esophagoscopic examination is even more important. In some cases endoscopic differentiation between acute inflammation and carcinoma is difficult. In such circumstances examination of a biopsy specimen taken from the gastric mucosa immediately distal to the area of inflammation or stricture may be helpful. Results in eight patients with advanced esophageal shortening and stricture who were treated conservatively indicate that this should be tried before surgical treatment is considered. For patients with esophageal hiatal hernia accompanied by shortening of the esophagus that is just beginning to produce symptoms, early repair is indicated, since the condition is progressive and the surgical problem is much simpler in the early stages.
The intravenous injection of one large dose of serum into rabbits caused a variety of changes of considerable complexity. There was an immediate proliferation of mesenchymal cells, including plasma cells, particularly in heart, lungs, and spleen. The signs of serum disease developed only at the time of abundant antibody formation, before significant quantities of antibody were laid down in the vascular connective tissue. Allergic arteritis, marked glomerular nephritis, myocardial necrosis, and Aschoff body-like structures were seen only after hypersensitivity had developed. It appears that most, if not all, of these pathological alterations were true Arthus phenomena. There were at least two distinct varieties of allergic arteritis and glomerular nephritis, namely a proliferative one, following the first injection, and a a necrotizing one, seen only after 2 injections. It appears that the first was a subacute Arthus phenomenon, while the latter was an acute Arthus phenomenon superimposed on a subacute one. The subacute experimental glomerular nephritis resembled the intracapillary glomerulonephritis in man, while the acute variety was like human extracapillary glomerular nephritis.
Fifty patients with uncomplicated Graves' disease were treated with radioactive iodine (I(131)). Twenty-six patients who were followed for one year or longer are the basis of this report. Twenty-five are now euthyroid; only one is not completely well. The total dose of radioiodine administered varied from 0.5 to 10 millicuries. The average length of time necessary for return to a euthyroid state was from three to four months. Hypometabolism developed in three patients, and in one the signs and symptoms of myxedema developed. No other complications ensued. One patient who apparently relapsed had complete return to normal after further iodine administration. The determination of the uptake of radioactive iodine by the thyroid gland is a useful diagnostic procedure in differentiating conditions simulating hyperthyroidism.Following treatment with radioactive iodine, the thyroid gland becomes smaller, the uptake of iodine by the gland is reduced, and the level of organic iodine in the plasma becomes normal. In acute thyroiditis, in spite of a high basal metabolic rate, high content of organic iodine in the plasma and other evidences of "hyperthyroidism," the uptake of I(131) has been very low.
Rheumatoid spondylitis in the early prodromal stage may present a complex and obscure clinical picture making diagnosis difficult. It is in this early stage that roentgen examination of the small joints of the spine will often aid in or lead to the correct diagnosis of the disease in which the classical clinical symptoms and roentenographic findings in the sacroiliac fissure have not appeared and may never appear. The changes in these small joints, particularly in the costovertebral and costotransverse joints, are less obvious and require experienced and careful interpretation, but it is to these that the roentgenologist must direct his attention if he is to be of assistance in early diagnosis. A technical procedure for this examination is presented, along with a discussion of the clinical importance of changes at this site. Demonstration of involvement of the sacroiliac joints is of diagnostic importance, but this finding is no more necessary to the diagnosis of rheumatoid spondylitis than is involvement of any other single joint of the spine. Insistence on sacroiliac involvement will often result in missed diagnosis, and has led in part to erroneous conclusions as to sex incidence of the disease.
Rabbit skin which is prepared for the Shwartzman phenomenon by an intradermal injection of meningococcal toxin exhibits, in vitro, a high degree of aerobic glycolysis. This metabolic abnormality is reflected, in vivo, by a measurable increase in the concentration of lactic acid in the prepared skin. Some increase in anaerobic glycolysis also occurs in prepared skin; this is of less degree than the increase in aerobic glycolysis. The respiratory quotient of prepared skin tends to be somewhat higher than that of normal skin, although the oxygen uptake is not significantly altered. Gross hemorrhagic lesions which resemble the Shwartzman phenomenon are produced by the intradermal injection of papain into rabbits which have received an intravenous injection of meningococcal toxin 1 hour previously. Such hemorrhagic reactions are not observed when papain is injected into normal rabbit skin. Similarly, hemorrhagic lesions are produced by the intradermal injection of cysteine and BAL, following an intravenous injection of meningococcal toxin. An hypothesis to explain the Shwartzman phenomenon, which implicates tissue protease in the damage to the blood vessels of the skin, is proposed.
A high incidence of acute diffuse glomerulitis was produced in unilaterally nephrectomized rabbits by injection with two successive doses of purified bovine serum gamma globulin (fraction II). This experimental nephritis is morphologically analogous to human acute and subacute diffuse glomerulonephritis. The technique described is advanced as a valuable experimental method in the study of the pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis. Qualitative immunological investigations produced no evidence that the pathogenesis of experimental globulin nephritis is mediated by kidney autoantibodies. The rôle of hypersensitivity in the pathogenesis of nephritis is discussed. During the 1st week of the development of experimental globulin nephritis there is a significant increase in blood coagulability, as shown by a lowering of the mean coagulation time in globulin-treated animals during this period. This observation has not been reported previously. The possible relation of this increased blood coagulability to the formation of coagula in the glomerular capillaries is discussed. The injection of a single purified antigen (bovine serum gamma globulin) produced three distinct types of lesion, diffuse glomerulitis, focal granulomata of the heart valves and valve rings, and coronary arteritis.
Repeated intraperitoneal injections twice daily of various proteins into young rats were regularly accompanied by an increase in the protein content of the urine, significant renal enlargement, and often some degree of renal pallor. The most marked changes were induced by gelatin, followed in order by human albumin and bovine globulin. Rat serum produced similar but less conclusive changes. Similar changes were not produced by equivalent amounts of urea or casein hydrolysate. In sections from the kidneys of animals receiving gelatin, the cells of the convoluted tubules appeared enlarged, and they contained clear "spaces" throughout the cytoplasm. The tubular cells of the animals receiving the other solutions were not obviously altered in size or shape, and the cytoplasmic changes were slight or absent. There was little evidence of increased multiplication of cells or of tubular dilatation in the kidneys of any of the groups. Changes in concentrations of plasma proteins and hemoglobin, and the results of preliminary studies of the injected proteins in urine and renal tissue following the injections, are described and their possible significance discussed. It appears that the renal enlargement, as well as the increase in proteinuria and the tubular alterations which followed the protein injections, might have been caused in part by effects on the kidney of protein molecules per se, perhaps most likely by the effects on the tubular cells of an increased amount of protein filtered through the glomerular membranes, rather than entirely by effects of products of protein digestion and metabolism reaching the kidney through the blood stream. In the majority of animals there was no evidence from the morphological or functional studies, that the prolonged and continuous proteinuria induced by the protein injections resulted in renal damage, unless the renal enlargement, and the cytoplasmic changes which occurred regularly with gelatin, are considered evidence of damage. Renal enlargement and proteinuria promptly regressed after injections were discontinued. Lesions characterized by severe degrees of tubular damage, possibly as a result of tubular plugging, were observed in some of the animals of one group receiving gelatin solution of the usual concentration, and dilatation of renal tubules and glomerular capsules was present in some other gelatin-treated animals autopsied after relatively brief injection periods. A description is also presented of lesions of remarkable character which developed in the kidneys of all the animals of one small group receiving homologous serum obtained from severely anoxic donors. The possible relationship between the renal changes in the protein-injected animals and certain alterations of the kidneys observed in diseases characterized by large amounts of protein in the urine, is considered.
Dysphagia, substernal or epigastric distress, and regurgitation of food are important early symptoms in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the esophagus. Temporary remission in symptoms does not rule out esophageal cancer. The use of thick barium meal and routine thorough examination of the esophagus in upright and supine positions in all upper gastrointestinal roentgen studies, even though the clinical symptoms point to the upper abdomen, are of great importance. The spread of the cancer to both mediastinal and subdiaphragmatic lymph nodes makes transthoracic thoracolaparotomy the one approach which will permit the surgeon to perform a one-stage esophagogastrostomy, and to adequately evaluate and deal with cancerous tissue on both sides of the diaphragm. This one-stage procedure permits the patient to swallow normally after operation, and the costly and time-consuming uncertainties of the many-staged operations are avoided. The comfort which the operation gives to otherwise doomed patients, along with the improving postoperative mortality rate, offers new hope to those who have cancer of the esophagus.
Sixty-seven patients with neoplastic diseases were treated with 151 courses of methylbis (beta-chloroethyl)amine hydrochloride (HN(2)). Seventy-seven of the courses consisted of single injections of 0.2 to 0.4 mg. per kilogram of body weight, and 35 courses were given as single injections of 0.6 mg. per kilogram of body weight.Twenty-three patients with Hodgkin's disease were treated. Remissions averaged approximately three months in 13 patients who were in good or fair general physical condition, and 1.5 months in 11 patients who were in poor or moribund condition; one of the 11 did not respond to the therapy. Fifteen patients with lymphosarcoma were treated. Remissions averaged between one and two months in four patients who were in good or fair general physical condition. Of the remaining 11 patients, two showed no response, and the longest remission among the remaining nine was approximately 40 days. Satisfactory remissions of one to three months were obtained in four patients with mycosis fungoides treated with single courses of 0.3 mg. per kilogram of body weight. Serious toxic reactions were observed in six patients, four of whom died. In five of the six instances the reactions consisted of pancytopenia and hemorrhagic diathesis. All these patients were in poor general or hematologic status before therapy. In general, large single doses of HN(2) were neither more nor less effective than the four-to six-day course usually employed with this agent. Combination of the administration of HN(2) with artificial hyperpyrexia, or with concurrent courses of pteroylglutamic conjugates, did not enhance the therapeutic effects of the agent.
A study was made of the clotting defect and the course of the malady in a group of male dogs with an inherited, sex-linked bleeding disease. The clotting defect is characterized by a prolonged clotting time and a delayed prothrombin utilization, and is corrected by the addition either of thromboplastin or of normal plasma. A plasma protein fraction, fraction I, also corrects the defect. The defect appears to be due to a deficiency of a plasma factor, which normally, in the presence of platelets, makes thromboplastin available in shed blood. The clotting anomaly appears to be identical with that found in human hemophilia. The hemostatic defect is characterized by repeated hemorrhages, usually without obvious relationship to trauma. Hemarthroses occur frequently and may result in permanent joint deformity. The animals usually die early in life from massive hemorrhage. Transfusions with normal blood or plasma correct the clotting defect and readily control the hemorrhagic phenomena. By the use of transfusions, these dogs have been reared to maturity.
One hundred twenty-four cases of external endometriosis and 95 cases of adenomyosis were analyzed. The two are clinically different diseases which have one feature in common-a reactive fibrosis to aberrant endometrial tissue. They are coexistent in about the same frequency as would result from a noncausal relationship. The origin of external endometriosis from the epithelial "inclusion" cyst is considered proven histologically. This is the source of origin of most external endometriosis, although occasional involvement from regurgitated endometrium probably occurs. Both the endometrial and the serous cysts have a common parentage in this anlage. CERTAIN HISTOLOGICAL FEATURES THAT ARE CONSIDERED PATHOGNOMONIC OF ENDOMETRIOSIS ARE: the minimal lesion, the characteristic cuboidal lined cyst, the siderophagic cyst without lining, and the siderophagic nest. Recognition of the siderophagic nest will permit identification of extinct endometriosis and thus aid in studies to determine the spontaneous or therapeutically induced regression of the disease. The coexistence of endometriosis with other pelvic pathological changes, notably carcinoma, indicates the need for further studies to search the possibility of relationship. The ability of ectopic deposits of endometrium to become malignant on rare occasions would appear to be proven, but it is a rare occurrence and there is no justification for regarding endometriosis as a premalignant disease.
Dietary cirrhosis of the liver was produced in 223 rats, and then therapy of the condition attempted. Administration of lipotropic factors (casein, methionine, choline) was followed not only by reduction of fat infiltration and by regeneration of hepatic parenchyma but, by a reduction of the degree of the fibrosis. In one group of rats, comparison of sections obtained by biopsy, before treatment, with findings at necropsy, after completed therapy, indicated apparent reduction of the fibrosis and of the amount of ceroid and considerable restoration of architecture. This improvement, however, was obtained neither with complete regularity nor in a short time. In very severe cirrhosis, as a rule, the effect of a lipotropic diet was disappointing, even after prolonged treatment up to 200 to 240 days. It is assumed that factors determining prevention are beneficial only to a limited extent in treatment. The therapy of very severe cirrhosis may require the interaction of further beneficial factors (nutritional and hormonal). Best therapeutic results were obtained by the combination of an adequate amount of casein with methionine or liver extract, and by the combination of methionine with liver extract. Methionine and thiouracil, both of which, singly, are effective in the prevention of dietary hepatic cirrhosis in rats, have proved to be less effective for the therapy of cirrhosis, when administered together, than methionine given alone for the same purpose. Under identical conditions, female rats have shown greater resistance to the production of dietary hepatic cirrhosis and a more favorable response to therapeutic dietary factors, than male rats.
Sudden development of pain in the head followed by evidences of meningeal irritation, with or without motor or sensory symptoms or signs, is almost pathognomonic of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The final diagnosis rests upon the demonstration of blood in the cerebrospinal fluid. If the hemorrhage is massive, or from an aneurysm of an unprotected arterial trunk, the patient may die in a comparatively short time. If the bleeding is less abundant and from an aneurysm which is protected by adjacent structures the patient may survive. Angiography should probably be done early in most cases. If neurological signs or the results of angiography indicate that the aneurysm is in such a location that surgical treatment is feasible it should probably be undertaken. If medical treatment is to be carried out the patient should have protracted rest, frequent spinal drainage so long as the cerebrospinal fluid contains blood or is under materially increased pressure, sedatives and analgesics, and passive movements of the neck and limbs to forestall limitation of motion of joints.
Considerable experience by many independent workers with the use of anticoagulants in the treatment of certain types of heart disease has shown that such therapy reduces significantly the incidence of thromboembolic complications and, largely through this effect, the morbidity and mortality rate from heart disease of these types. This is certainly established in acute coronary occlusion with myocardial infarction and in those instances of rheumatic heart disease with auricular fibrillation in which repeated embolic phenomena have occurred. The case for the administration of the anticoagulants in congestive heart failure is less secure, although there is no doubt that the number of thromboembolic complications is reduced by use of them. The administration of the anticoagulants requires considerably more exacting attention than does the administration of the majority of therapeutic agents in use commonly today. Hence, it is suggested that the use of anticoagulants in heart disease be restricted to those instances in which the indications are clear and facilities are compatible with the efficient and safe use of the drug, whether Dicumarol or heparin.
Excretion of poliomyelitis virus has been demonstrated in monkeys after four different parenteral routes of inoculation. Virus has been found in both the pharyngeal secretions and the stools after infraorbital nerve dip and after inoculation of the Gasserian ganglion; in the pharyngeal secretions after intrathalamic inoculation; and in the stools after inoculation of the celiac ganglion. Excretion began as early as the 2nd and as late as the 7th day after inoculation, in all instances before the onset of symptoms. The immediate source of the excreted virus appeared to be infected peripheral ganglia with neural connections to the mucous membranes of the upper and lower portions of the alimentary tract, notably the pharynx. Primary infection of the body surfaces was excluded in the experiments and therefore could not account for the excretion of virus. The mode of elimination was probably by centrifugal spread through axons of peripheral nerve fibers and not by way of the blood stream or lymphatics. Evidence was obtained that when excretion of virus has once occurred, reinvasion from the implicated surface to other, previously uninfected peripheral ganglia ensues, thus providing new sources for excretion and other potential pathways for invasion of the CNS. It is suggested that such reinvasion may occur serially until the immunological defenses come into play. Our experiments lend support to the view that during the initial stage of poliomyelitis, and perhaps throughout its course in some cases, e.g. the asymptomatic and the mild cases without central nervous symptoms, infection is confined to the peripheral nervous system. Involvement of the CNS when it occurs is a secondary phase of the infective process and is not a necessary prelude to elimination of the virus. Excretion is explainable on the basis of the established neurocytotropism and axonal conduction of the virus without resort to the hypothesis of extraneural infection.
The results of postmortem examination of cases of hereditary osteopetrosis of the rabbit together with histologic observations on organs and tissues other than the skeleton have been described. The principal findings were, first, those associated with the characteristic progressive anemia of the disease, such as extramedullary foci of hemopoietic tissue, lymphoid hyperplasia, and the occurrence of hemosiderin in the liver, spleen, and lymph nodes. There was a widespread tissue distribution of intense phosphatase staining and of fine calcium deposition, as would be expected in the circumstances of the profound skeletal abnormality (3). In advanced cases with established growth retardation, malnutrition, and deterioration, the tissues generally showed a decreased glycogen content. The large amount of parathyroid tissue found in both early and late cases suggested a state of hyperparathyroidism. Low serum calcium, high serum phosphorus and phosphatase levels (2), and a predominately osteoblastic reaction were suggestive of hypoparathyroidism. The possibility that an involvement of the parathyroid glands was a basic or primary condition of the disease is discussed. Evidence of a disturbance of other endocrine glands was shown by the predominately acidophilic staining reaction of the colloid of the thyroid, an enlargement of the adrenals in which both cortex and medulla participated, and the tendency toward a basophilia of the anterior lobe of the pituitary. It was pointed out that before an explanation of the part played by the parathyroid glands in this disease could be made, other data, including particularly embryological studies, must be available. Similarly, an interpretation of other endocrine gland changes must await additional information.
The lung tissue of mouse embryos of the C strain proliferates to some extent after implantation in adult hosts of the same breed and rapidly differentiates, forming a parenchyma remarkably like the normal. The grafts persist long. When methylcholanthrene dissolved in olive oil has been introduced with them much more growth of them occurs. The carcinogen induces a pronounced metaplasia of the epithelium of the bronchial tree, and the altered cells are often aggressive, multiplying, invading, and largely replacing the parenchyma about them. So closely do they resemble malignant elements in aspect and behavior that it is frequently difficult to tell whether carcinomatous change is not actually present. Genuine tumors soon arise, multiple benign adenomas sometimes appearing within 3 weeks, and indubitable carcinomas a few weeks later. Not a few of the cancers are of transitional cell type, that is to say are expressive of an intermediate stage in the metaplasia. Under the influence of methylcholanthrene the cells lining the alveolar spaces of the graft sometimes undergo metaplasia also, with result in stratified squamous epithelium. It follows that there is reason to doubt the current assumption that all squamous cell carcinomas of the lung necessarily arise from the bronchial tree. The findings, taken with others previously reported, make it difficult to suppose, furthermore, that the generality of lung tumors can be due to neoplastic viruses entering the organism in postnatal life and having no broader scope than those thus far discovered.
Alterations in serum potassium are common in many diseases. In a series of 390 determinations of serum potassium, the levels found were low in 24 per cent and high in 2.6 per cent. The major causes of low serum potassium are decreased potassium intake due to intravenous feedings which do not contain potassium; increased loss of potassium in the urine due to accelerated tissue breakdown, or renal lesions; loss from the gastrointestinal tract due to diarrhea, or fistulae, and shift between serum and cells, due to metabolic causes, drugs or changes in pH. The major cause of high serum potassium is uremia with renal retention.Clinical symptoms and signs of low body potassium include muscle weakness and paralysis, which may lead to death in respiratory failure if not corrected, tachycardia, gallop rhythm, dilatation of the heart. The electrocardiogram shows inverted, low amplitude, or isoelectric T waves and a prolonged QT interval. Potassium chloride orally, subcutaneously or intravenously is recommended for use in the treatment of potassium deficits. It should not be used in the presence of oliguria or anuria or dehydration. The amounts of potassium necessary to correct deficits vary widely and cannot be predicted from the serum level. Special reference is made to the prevention and therapy of potassium deficits in diabetic acidosis. High serum potassium levels are difficult to correct. Suggested measures are administration of glucose, insulin or calcium, gastric or peritoneal lavage or use of the artificial kidney.
The dihydrogenated alkaloids of ergot, dihydroergocornine (DHO 180) and an equal mixture of dihydroergocornine, dihydroergocristine and dihydroergokryptine known as CCK 179 have been found to be therapeutic adjuncts in the medical treatment of peripheral vascular diseases. Their action is primarily that of adrenergic blockage, although depression of the brain stem is to be considered. The mixture of alkaloids (CCK 179) was found to be more effective than a single alkaloid, dihydroergocornine (DHO 180). A greater number of patients were benefited, relief of symptoms was greater and the dosage easier to establish. A favorable therapeutic response of clinical significance with the mixture was obtained in approximately 60 per cent of all cases investigated. It was of greater benefit in the organic occlusive diseases, where a larger percentage of favorable responses was obtained than in the purely vasospastic disorders. Orally and subcutaneously, CCK 179 exhibited vasodilating properties which compared favorably with paravertebral and peripheral nerve block, reflex heat, alcohol and sympathectomy. Surface temperatures were elevated, oscillometric readings increased and tolerance to cold increased in a statistically significant number of cases. Effects of sympathectomies were frequently enhanced. Following subcutaneous administration, increased surface temperatures of the extremities of one to two hours' duration were obtained in 90 per cent of all cases.Paresthesias, nocturnal cramps and intermittent claudication were improved. A sense of well-being was occasionally exhibited. Blood pressure and pulse rates were rarely affected. Blood pressure was lowered in normotensive patients, but was rarely changed in hypertensive patients. Symptoms of overdosage appeared after two to three months of continuous therapy. These were manifested by lowered surface temperatures, decreased tolerance to cold, return of intermittent claudication and occasionally by vague general discomfort. These symptoms disappeared on cessation of therapy. Improvement frequently followed. In only one case was there an immediate reaction. Following subcutaneous administration of CCK, blood pressure and pulse rate increased and oscillometric readings and surface temperatures decreased. Frequent courses of therapy with interruptions were necessary for maintenance of improvement.
Chronic relapsing pancreatitis is a disease of recurring acute episodes of severe upper abdominal pain which are progressive and gradually may become so severe and so frequent as to be intractable. Early in the disease the function of the gland and of the islet tissue may be disturbed only at the time of the acute attack, but subsequently these changes may become permanent and manifested by steatorrhea, creatorrhea and diabetes mellitus. The results of studies of pancreatic function parallel those of the pathologic process, and calcification of the pancreas is common. Medical treatment is generally disappointing. Paravertebral injections may control acute pain. Surgical therapy is none too satisfactory. Long continued biliary drainage, anastomosis between the common bile duct and duodenum and between the pancreatic duct and duodenum, section of the sphincter of Oddi, partial and total pancreatectomy and sympathectomy, splanchnicectomy and vagotomy have been helpful in relieving pain and in preventing the recurrence of attacks in some instances.
The tissues affected by histamine and anaphylactic reactions are identical. Epinephrine antagonizes the action of histamine by acting on effector cells in a direction opposite to that of histamine. The so-called antihistaminic drugs block rather than antagonize the action of histamine. The injection into the human body of epinephrine or certain antihistaminic substances provokes the release of histamine and thereby produces a rise in the histamine blood level. There is a remarkable conformity of potency of antihistaminics as determined by Dale experiments and by histamine intoxication experiments in the intact guinea pig. Neoantergan, Pyribenzamine and Histadyl are usually superior to other compounds when potency is assayed by these methods. All antihistaminics provide similar protection again animal anaphylaxis. Larger doses are necessary to protect against anaphylaxis than against histamine intoxication. The differences in potency as determined by Dale experiments and histamine experiments in animals are not found in clinical use. One compound is not generally superior to all others in the treatment of any one or several allergic disorders. The antihistaminic drugs are beneficial in the symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis, acute urticaria and angioneurotic edema, and mild non-infective bronchial asthma. Their effectiveness in the management of moderately severe and severe non-infective bronchial bronchial asthma; infective bronchial asthma; migraine; atopic dermatitis (disseminated neurodermatitis), and pruritus of skin disorders other than acute urticaria and angioneurotic edema, is not worthy of particular commendation. The size of the dose of any antihistaminic substance influences the incidence of but not the type of side-effect that may accompany its usage. The quality of side effects varies according to the drug, although there is an individuality of response for each patient which must be reckoned with. In selecting an antihistaminic compound it is necessary to consider the percentage of cases in which side effects occur, as well as the percentage of good results. Optimal results are obtained by employing combinations of compounds and changing from one to the other as the case demands.
The adrenal cortical hormone, cortisone, and the pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) possess potent antirheumatic properties. Their administration produces strikingly beneficial effects on a number of rheumatic diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid (ankylosing) spondylitis, acute rheumatic fever, disseminated lupus erythematosus, periarteritis nodosa, psoriatic arthritis, dermatomyositis, and gout. In general the effects of these substances are temporary and they cause suppression rather than cure of the disease processes. Improvement is maintained usually only by continuing administration, and on hormonal withdrawal prompt or fairly prompt relapse of the disease manifestations ensues. In addition to their antirheumatic effects cortisone and ACTH influence a wide variety of physiologic functions. Administration of them therefore may produce a number of metabolic and clinical changes, some of which are not advantageous from a therapeutic standpoint. Adverse side-reactions are more liable to occur when large doses of the hormones are given for prolonged periods; such reactions appear to be reversible and disappear when administration of the hormones is stopped. With cortisone, comparatively few untoward signs develop when smaller amounts are administered continuously even for periods of months. Greater clinical experience is needed before optimal doses and schedules of administration are finally determined. It appears that some severe cases, many moderately severe cases, and most moderate and mild cases of rheumatoid arthritis may be adequately controlled with smaller "maintenance" doses of cortisone ranging from 32 to 65 mg. a day, providing larger doses to suppress the disease manifestations are employed initially. Neither cortisone nor ACTH should be considered as a therapeutic agent for general use until more information regarding their physiologic activities and the consequences of prolonged or repeated administration of them are available. Until the potential dangers of these hormones can be determined precisely, the use of them should be considered as an investigative procedure.
The ears of young adult rabbits were painted with methylcholanthrene (MC) long enough to call forth a few benign tumors (papillomas, frill horns), and the animals were followed throughout their later lives. Soon after the paintings were stopped the tumors began to dwindle and vanished, yet even while they were disappearing other growths of the same kinds arose, only to vanish later in their turn. For a long while more arose than disappeared, and in consequence the number of tumors increased throughout years. They accumulated at a constant rate despite concurrent changes in the supporting skin, which might have been supposed, on previous experience, to have prevented this from happening. Only in the old age of the animals did the number of tumors eventually fall off, and by this time the skin on which they had arisen, long since normal in the gross to all appearance, had become nearly so microscopically. Even then latent neoplastic potentialities still existed in the cutaneous tissue; where punch holes were healing new tumors arose. A great multitude of hidden neoplastic cells were present in the MCed skin, and from them many of the growths called forth by the stimulus of healing undoubtedly derived. Yet the facts make it difficult to suppose that the long accumulation, at a constant rate, of tumors visible in the gross was due wholly to the proliferation of cells rendered neoplastic during the period of exposure to MC, and lying hidden afterwards for periods determined by their differing, evenly graded capabilities. Nor can the accumulation be attributed to a sustained carcinogenesis resulting from the pathological state of the skin. As a whole the findings indicate that the linear increase in growths was due for the most part to a continual arrival at the neoplastic state and subsequent proliferation of cells, or the descendants of cells, that had been no more than started on the way toward becoming neoplastic by the carcinogen. There is clinical evidence for such a course of events. Now and again a carcinoma arose from the skin previously treated with MC, but they were few in all, as would follow from the presence of local conditions unfavorable to malignant change. Some appeared only after years,-in one instance more than 5 years after. The occurrence of deferred cancer in man can be understood in terms of the findings in rabbits.
Direct exposure to poliomyelitis virus of the central end of a cut branch of the V cranial nerve was followed by centripetal spread of infection to the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion, involvement of which was detected both histologically and by subinoculation as early as the 3rd day. In some instances infection did not progress further; in others it spread into the CNS with initial involvement of the trigeminal centers in the pons and medulla as early as the 4th day and by the 5th day was further advanced but still limited to the brainstem. Once infection was established it progressed both rostrally and caudally, at times with great rapidity, through the brainstem and reached the cord on the 6th or a later day. Incidental exposure in traumatized muscle of peripheral fibers of the VII motor nerve led in some instances to spread along that pathway directly into the CNS. Application of the experimental results to human poliomyelitis is of interest chiefly in four respects. The ascent of infection from a peripheral ganglion of the head area to the CNS with initial encephalitis of the brainstem and subsequent descent to the spinal cord is believed to parallel the evolution of the human disease as suggested by the character and order of development of the early symptoms and signs. The failure in some instances of infection to spread from an infected peripheral ganglion to the CNS may parallel inapparent ("subclinical") poliomyelitis in man. Invasion of virus through traumatized muscle directly to the CNS also has possible analogues in human experience which will be discussed in a later paper. The presence of well marked and sometimes extensive lesions in the brainstem one or more days before symptoms emerge is also believed to parallel the human case.
Intraperitoneal injection of red cells tagged with radioiron into dogs with experimental ascites demonstrated that such cells were rapidly transferred into the circulating blood. When the experimental animals were not actively producing ascitic fluid, 43.4, 67.0, and 56.4 per cent respectively, of the administered radioactive red cells passed to the blood in 72 hours. In the same three dogs during active ascitic fluid formation, 25.9, 51.2, and 38.8 per cent of the administered radioactivity was removed in a similar period. The amount of radioactivity in the blood stream, consequent on the passage of red cells from the peritoneal cavity into the circulation, becomes nearly constant in 48 hours, whereas for radioactive plasma proteins the plateau is attained in 24 hours (Fig. 1). In normal dogs (16), the passage of red cells from the peritoneal cavity was complete in 72 hours, while in ascitic dogs, 5 to 47 per cent of the injected tagged red cells remained behind in the peritoneum after the same period.
Preliminary studies on the effects of antabus (tetraethylthiuram disulfide) in the therapy of alcoholic patients indicate that it is very valuable in providing a "chemical foundation" for sobriety, even in those with a severe, long term drinking problem. In the first 30 patients treated, a favorable degree of control of the alcoholism has been effected in approximately 80 per cent. When taken regularly the drug maintains in the patient a very high degree of sensitivity to alcohol, quickly producing a number of very distressing bodily reactions whenever even very small amounts of spirits are ingested. Because of its potential dangers, antabus should be used only after thorough clinical and laboratory studies in properly staffed institutions. It is contraindicated in individuals with existing major psychosis or drug addiction and must be used only with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, goiter, pregnancy, epilepsy, asthma, and hepatic disease. Antabus therapy should be considered only one aspect of the total treatment program for the alcoholic patient.
Studies by eminent surgeons to reevaluate the place of radical operations in the treatment of carcinoma of the cervix-now that extensive procedures have become less hazardous-apparently have led to confusion in some minds as to choice between surgical and radiation therapy. Pending outcome of the studies, general employment of surgical treatment is unwarranted. Radiation is the treatment of choice in most cases, particularly if the lesion is in an early stage, although radical operation is indicated in certain rare early cases in which delivery of an effective dose of radiation to involved areas is technically difficult. Elsewise it appears at present that operation should be used only in cases of stages III or IV carcinoma-in which results by either means of treatment are poor.One hundred and seven patients were treated with a combination of x-ray and radium irradiation. X-ray was used first to reduce the hazard of implanting the radium. The "five-year arrest" rates were as follows: For 22 patients with stage I lesion, 70 per cent; for 31 with stage II, 55.7 per cent; 33 with stage III, 39.7 per cent; 21 with stage IV, Eighteen patients with diagnosis of carcinoma of the cervix who had had subtotal hysterectomy were treated. The stage of the disease could not be determined. In this group the five-year arrest rate was 52 per cent.
A technic of abdominal aortography has been presented. The procedure is simple, and very little special equipment is necessary. It is relatively harmless, and in our series we have had no fatalities or untoward reactions. Five cases have been presented. In the case of acute aortic occlusion due to a saddle thrombus, we feel that little additional information was obtained by aortography. The procedure in an already desperately ill patient was harmful. In fact, the mere administration of an anesthetic was dangerous. Such cases in nearly all instances are easily recognized, and if seen early enough, aortic embolectomy should be done without loss time. Two cases of aneurysm of the abdominal aorta were presented. One of these was explored and treated, while in the other case, the aortogram revealed that both renal vessels took their origin from the portion of the aorta involved, and the patient was not subjected to surgery which was contraindicated. Aortograms in suspected abdominal aortic aneurysms are of distinct value. Not only do they corroborate the clinical impression, but they also reveal the exact level of the lesion and in most cases its extent as well. Useless exploration is avoided when major branches, such as the renal arteries, are involved. In Figure 4 the aneurysm failed to fill. We do not know whether this was a technical error, but are inclined to believe it was due to abnormal currents in the aneurysm. We hope to gain further knowledge of this type of filling defect as more aneurysms are studied with serial x-rays. In the last two cases presented, we feel that aortography was of decided value. Chronic occlusion of the aortic bifurcation is rare, and although it may be suspected clinically, the exact diagnosis can only be made by aortogram or exploration. Further, the cephalad extension of the thrombosis can be accurately seen. In a case such as the last presented, a partial occlusion can be visualized, and repeated aortography will be of value in studying the progress of the disease. I feel it is worthwhile to mention in closing that in the two cases of chronic aortic occlusion, no large, collaterals to the affected extremities were visualized. However, both of the patients improved following resection of the occluded segments and lumbar sympathectomy. We do not feel that the failure to visualize collateral arterial channels should be a contraindication to the surgical therapy of this disease.
The primary radiologic evidence of intra-abdominal hernia is disturbance of normal small intestine arrangement. Loops of intestine are crowded together as if in a bag, giving the appearance of clumping or sacculation. Dilatation and loss of mobility may occur with varying degrees of stasis. Displacement of viscera or pressure deformity may be observed. Studies of the small bowel are necessary to demonstrate these conditions and must be made with the patient in the erect as well as the horizontal position. Repeated studies may be required, and the best time to make them is during an acute attack, as the hernia may be temporarily reduced during a remission. The clinical symptoms are sufficiently characteristic to suggest the diagnosis in most cases. The usual history is of repeated attacks of abdominal pain or discomfort, usually accompanied by distention, varying in periodicity and intensity, with or without nausea or vomiting, and not accompanied by laboratory data or clinical signs indicative of inflammatory disease. Similar or identical clinical and roentgenologic evidence may be produced by torsion of the small bowel or by peritoneal adhesions. The hernia or torsion may reduce spontaneously before or at the time of operation. Therefore, a careful search for abnormal fossae, mesenteric defects or adhesive bands is necessary if herniation or torsion is not found.
In a clinical review of 50 cases of western equine and 16 cases of St. Louis encephalomyelitis in humans it was noted that fever, headache, lethargy, drowsiness, tremor and stiffness of the neck were the most frequent signs or symptoms initiating the illness. The great majority of patients recovered without residual effect. These two diseases of the central nervous system can only be differentiated on an immunological basis but may be suspected during seasonal periods in geographical areas where these virus infections are known to exist. Neuropathological studies were done in four cases of human western equine and two cases of St. Louis encephalomyelitis. The primary point of attack by the virus is the cell body, the lesions being concentrated in the striate body, diencephalon, the brain stem and cerebellum. All histo-anatomical findings (nerve cell destruction, microglial nests, small isolated and confluent areas of necrosis and perivascular round cell infiltration) are secondary to the injury of the nerve cell body caused by the neurotropic virus.
Occasionally in the presence of atypical symptoms it is difficult to distinguish between cerebrovascular disorders and intracranial tumors. Intracranial tumor should be suspected in cases of atypical symptoms of vascular lesion or even in typical cases in which the patient does not show expected improvement. In a group of eight cases the problem of differential diagnosis was not confined to those in which the patients were elderly. Furthermore, papilledema and elevated spinal fluid pressure were absent in all these cases. The absence of these signs, therefore, does not eliminate the possibility of an intracranial tumor.The electroencephalogram is an important adjunct in differential diagnosis. In this series, electroencephalograms lateralized the lesion correctly in every case and localized it in one. The importance of repeated electroencephalographic examination if wave patterns are normal in the first tracing was clearly illustrated in three instances.Ventriculography, which in six cases finally established the diagnosis, and the site of the lesion, should not be postponed unnecessarily.
Purified lipase, injected intracerebrally and intravasculariy in rabbits, gave rise to focal areas of demyelinization in the central nervous system in 10 of 13 animals so treated. In one instance the lesions became manifest within 48 hours and in another they persisted for 6 months; they were not infrequently accompanied by paresis and by tilting or tremor of the head. They were characterized by a focal loss of myelin and moderate gliosis with little or no neuronal destruction or inflammatory reaction, in these respects resembling the plaques of multiple sclerosis. The intracerebral injection of trypsin and chymotrypsin in control animals failed to produce the characteristic demyelinization, but by contrast caused focal areas of necrosis in which all the cerebral tissues were involved. Furthermore, demyelinization did not result when heat-inactivated pancreatic lipase was injected intracerebrally, and similarly negative results were obtained when an incubated mixture comprised of fatty connective tissue that had been acted upon by the pancreatic preparation and then heated to inactivate the lipase, was injected into the brains of rabbits. In supplementary experiments the pancreatic lipase preparation and fresh rabbit brain, incubated together in vitro, were found to form acid, presumably owing to the breakdown of brain lipids to fatty acids; trypsin and chymotrypsin mixed with brain in control experiments failed to form acid. When incubated with segments of the spinal cord of experimental animals, the lipolytic enzyme brought about a loss of stainable myelin in peripheral areas and in the spinal nerve roots; again trypsin and chymotrypsin had no such effect in control experiments. The findings as a whole show that an enzyme preparation with lipolytic activity has the ability to destroy myelin in living animals, and in vitro as well, and to produce lesions remarkably similar to those of multiple sclerosis. They have additional interest in light of the demonstration that a lipolytic enzyme is regularly present in the reactive histiocytes of guinea pigs with experimental encephalomyelitis (5).
A lipolytic enzyme has been demonstrated by means of a cytochemical technique and by direct chemical assay in granulomatous tissues of guinea pigs with encephalomyelitis and demyelinization resulting from the injection of an emulsion comprised of brain tissue and adjuvants, including Mycobacterium butyricum. Combined histologic and cytochemical studies showed that the lipolytic enzyme was present in the cytoplasm of a large proportion of the reactive histiocytes in the granulomatous tissue around the site of injection in the diseased animals, and that the enzyme-containing histiocytes were even more numerous in the inflamed regional lymph nodes. In control experiments, when emulsions lacking either brain tissue or M. butyricum were injected in previously normal guinea pigs, the experimental condition did not develop; under these circumstances the lipolytic enzyme was found in only a small proportion of the cells of the granulomatous tissue around the injection sites, and it was almost negligible in the regional lymph nodes of these animals. It was absent from the cells of the lymph nodes of normal animals, and from the cells of talcum and aluminum hydroxide granulomas produced experimentally in guinea pigs. The lipolytic enzyme may be a factor in the pathogenesis of the experimental encephalomyelitis and demyelinization.
A study was made of the relationship of blood lipids to the development of experimental atherosclerosis. Rabbits fed a diet containing cholesterol were found to develop hyperlipemia characterized by a great increase in blood cholesterol and a much lesser increase in blood phospholipids; after several weeks they manifested conspicuous atherosclerosis of the aorta, as has often been observed by others. Comparable rabbits fed the same diets containing added cholesterol were given in addition repeated intravenous injections of the surface-active agents Tween 80 and Triton A20; these animals developed hyperlipemia which was characterized by a great increase in blood cholesterol and an equivalent or even greater increase in phospholipids, and they had much less atherosclerosis than did the control rabbits fed cholesterol alone. In further experiments it was observed that repeated intravenous injections of Tween 80 did not result in resorption of previously induced atherosclerosis in rabbits. The findings are discussed in relation to the pathogenesis of natural and experimental atherosclerosis.
Young, rapidly growing mice are greatly more responsive to the adenoma-inducing influence of urethane than are those just arriving at maturity. This is manifest both in the proportion of animals developing the tumors and in their number per individual. An amount of urethane per gram body weight which suffices to induce adenomas in only an occasional 8-week-old animal will cause them to appear in quantity in more than half the 3-week-old mice injected. There is an almost absolute inverse correlation between the rate of growth of the pulmonary tissue between the ages of 2 and 10 weeks and the response to urethane in terms of adenomas. Hence the conclusion seems justified that the natural proliferative activity of the alveolar cells during youth plays a major part in the formation of the tumors. After the 6th week the age differences become relatively slight, yet there is reason to think that they continue in some degree as life goes on. Urethane has no effect to promote multiplication of the cells it has rendered neoplastic, its whole role being to initiate neoplastic change. The abnormalities induced by urethane in the nucleus of normal and neoplastic cells, as observed by previous workers, have suggested that the substance brings about the adenomatous state by acting upon the nucleus. But colchicine, also a karyolytic poison causing pronounced nuclear changes, does not alter in the least the yield of adenomas to urethane when administered concurrently. Nor does fasting influence the yield, though it markedly reduces mitotic activity. The meaning of these facts is discussed.
Examination of 50 autopsied cases of human poliomyelitis showed prominent hyperplastic and inflammatory changes in the lymphoid tissues of 41, the most frequent and severe lesions observed save those in the central nervous system. Histologically the germinal centers showed prominent degenerative and regenerative alterations, fluid transudation, giant cell formation, and rare inclusion bodies, all consistent with virus effects. Treatment of mice with x-rays, aminopterin, and adrenocorticotropic hormone increased poliomyelitis infections following intraperitoneal injection of MEF strain virus, potentiated by intracerebrally injected corn starch. This was ascribed to the damage to lymphoid tissues produced by these agents. On the basis of combined morphologic and virus studies, the presence of gastrointestinal, lymphoid, nervous tissue, and nerve cell defense barriers to poliomyelitis virus is suggested. Use of irradiated mice might prove useful in primary isolation of virus from human poliomyelitis.
The administration of cortisone acetate to patients with rheumatoid arthritis usually produces prompt and often dramatic suppression of the disease manifestations. The effects of the hormone are not lasting, however, and after withdrawal relapse ensues. For sustained improvement in a chronic disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, it appears that cortisone must be given more or less continuously. This raises the question whether administration may be continued effectively and safely for long periods.Seventy-six patients with rheumatoid arthritis were given cortisone in the hope that treatment could be continued uninterruptedly for extended periods. For various clinical reasons it was necessary to discontinue treatment in 16 of these before six months, but the remaining 60 patients received the hormone uninterruptedly for six to 15 months. By using initial large suppressive amounts, then gradually reducing the dosage, and finally employing smaller maintenance doses, adequate degrees of rheumatic control were maintained in approximately two-thirds of the original 76 patients. The ability to sustain satisfactory improvement varied indirectly, in general, with the severity of the rheumatoid arthritis. The chief detriment to better results in the more severe cases was the intervention of adverse hormonal side effects which developed frequently when large or relatively large maintenance doses were required to support satisfactory improvement. Unwanted signs of hormonal excess developed in 40 per cent of cases at some time during the course of treatment. Most of them were mild or transient and disappeared or lessened when the dose of cortisone was reduced, but when the dose was reduced the degree of improvement often declined also. During prolonged cortisone therapy evidence of functional suppression of the adrenal cortices, as indicated by a decreased response of circulating eosinophils to exogenous ACTH, was present. The depression of cortical function was temporary, however. Whether irreversible damage may result when the drug is employed for longer periods cannot yet be answered.
Trisethylene-imino-s-triazine (triethylene melamine or TEM) produced minimal effects in inhibiting transplantable lymphoma and mammary adenocarcinoma in mice. In strain A mice, injection of the compound induced pulmonary tumors.TEM was tried on 32 patients with neoplastic disease, including nine patients with Hodgkin's disease and five with lymphosarcoma and lymphatic leukemia. The therapeutic and toxic effects were similar to those observed with nitrogen mustard (HN2). Satisfactory remissions of up to three months were observed in Hodgkin's disease and lymphosarcoma following parenteral administration of TEM. It is the authors' impression that the remissions obtained with TEM were not as complete and did not last as long as those obtained with HN2.TEM is effective by the oral route as well as parenterally, and produces much less emetic reaction than HN2. On the other hand, the chemotherapeutic range is narrower than that of HN2. Patients who do not respond to HN2 show no response to TEM.TEM is a drug of some clinical usefulness in the same conditions and with the same general limitations and toxic effects as HN2. The ease of administration of TEM increases its hazards, and close clinical and hematologic observations are essential on patients receiving the agent.
The problem of preventing loss of hearing following acute otitis media has been made more complex by the use of penicillin and other antibiotic agents which may apparently cure yet leave dangerous residual disease. The causes of loss of hearing must be recognized early if remedial treatment is to be effective. In children particularly, loss of hearing may go unnoticed for some time. Physicians who treat otitis media should feel the responsibility not only of bringing an acutely ill child back to health but of preserving the function of the hearing mechanism. Careful examination of the ear after apparent subsidence of infection is mandatory. It is of the utmost importance to be able to recognize the ear drum in its normal state and its various pathological states and to be alert to the early signs of changes associated with loss of hearing. Antibiotics should not be expected to do more than help combat the acute infection in otitis media. Adequate follow-up demands strong suspicion of residual pathologic process in the ear. The prevention of loss of hearing still requires knowledge of the established clinical facts and therapeutic procedures and the application of this knowledge to treatment of acute infections of the middle ear.
The concurrent administration of compound E at a daily dosage of 2 mg. per kg. to rabbits receiving daily intracutaneous injections of crystalline egg albumin markedly inhibited the development of anaphylactic hypersensitivity of the Arthus type. ACTH, when given at a similar dosage, produced a much less marked effect. Both hormones suppressed circulating antibody and as with the Arthus reaction, the suppression produced by compound E was much greater than that obtained with ACTH. When treatment with compound E was started following sensitization, there was a rapid decline in circulating antibody and, if the pretreatment serum antibody was low, there was also a progressive decrease in skin reactivity, becoming negative after 5 days of treatment. When the pretreatment serum antibody concentration was great, so that by the termination of treatment the antibody concentration was still above the level ordinarily sufficient for a maximal skin response, the Arthus reaction was unaffected by treatment. These considerations as well as the failure of compound E to inhibit the systemic passive Arthus reaction suggest that the inhibitory effect of compound E and ACTH on the development of experimental hypersensitivity results from the hormonal reduction of circulating antibody. Treatment with compound E had no effect on the rate of disappearance of circulating antibody in the passively immunized rabbit. This finding suggests that ACTH and compound E reduce circulating antibody by inhibiting antibody formation rather than by promoting antibody destruction. The question is raised as to whether the marked lymphoid atrophy produced by these hormones may be related to the interference with antibody production.
Ninety-eight patients with 100 different tumors of the small bowel were studied. There were more malignant than benign tumors. Adenocarcinoma was the commonest lesion and the ileum the most frequent anatomical site of all tumors. Except for carcinoid tumors, the lesions were observed more often in male than in female patients. The average age of patients in this series was higher than that reported in most other series. Loss of weight, and abdominal pain were the most constant symptoms. Clinical syndromes of anemia and bleeding, small bowel obstruction, biliary obstruction, perforation with peritonitis, abdominal tumor, melanosis with small bowel polyposis, and cutaneous von Recklinghausen's disease with small bowel neurofibromatosis were encountered either alone or in combination. In the group operated upon, a resection of the involved segment with end-to-end anastomosis was done when feasible. None of the patients operated upon before 1946 lived as much as five years after operation. The most common causes of death were extension of the primary tumor and metastasis, peritonitis due to perforation, associated bronchopneumonia, and hemorrhage.
Within 48 hours after simple oropharyngeal exposures of cynomolgus monkeys to poliomyelitis virus, histological signs of infection were found in ganglia supplying the exposed mucous membranes. At 3 days, virus was found in the Gasserian, petrosal-nodose, and superior cervical sympathetic ganglia. Lesions were most extensive and severe in the Gasserian. Virus continued to be detected daily from the 3rd to the 8th day, inclusive, in the Gasserian but not on the 9th; from the 3rd to the 6th day, inclusive, in the petrosal-nodose but not on the 7th, 8th, or 9th; on the 3rd and 6th days only, in the superior cervical sympathetic; and on the 5th day only, in the celiac. In all the ganglia examined, the histological signs of infection increased to a maximum on the 5th day, and thereafter declined. In the sympathetic ganglia, a secondary late increase was observed on the 7th day. During the first 7 days, no signs of infection were found in the CNS in 84 per cent of the animals examined, and in the remainder such lesions as were found were probably not significant. In control animals permitted to survive, the median period before the onset of symptoms of poliomyelitis, when these occurred, was 9 days (range 7 to 16 days), and in the animals with symptoms typical extensive lesions were found in the CNS. In two control animals failing to show symptoms and sacrificed at 26 and 30 days respectively, histological signs of infection were present in the Gasserian and other ganglia but none in the CNS.
Studies have been made of the effects of cortisone on the course of primary and developed infections with P. cynomolgi in the rhesus monkey. This investigation has shown that repetitive admmistration of the hormone in daily doses of 10 mg. per kg. during the primary attack produced striking intensification of the peripheral blood infection during the postcrisis phases of the disease. Similar administration of 10 or 50 mg. per kg. doses of the hormone during the chronic or latent stages of the infection provoked recrudescences of remarkable severity. In both early and late infections the responses induced by cortisone treatment corresponded closely to the reactions to splenectomy. Collateral studies have shown that the doses of cortisone which produced the reactions described above also evoked a lymphopenia, marked reductions in the sizes of the axillary and inguinal lymph nodes and spleen, and striking histological changes in the latter organ. These changes involved severe regression or exhaustion of lymphoid elements in both splenic nodules and pulp with almost complete obliteration of proliferative activities involved in the production of macrophages from lymphocytes. Indications are that the resulting reduction in supply of macrophages, rather than inhibition of phagocytic activity per se, was responsible for the intensification of the disease produced by cortisone.
Various conditions of the adrenal gland are amenable to surgical treatment. Removal of a pheochromocytoma is almost always indicated when the tumor is diagnosed. The results of extirpation have been excellent in cases in which patients were operated upon before the onset of chronic hypertension. Removal of the "nerve cell" tumors of the adrenal is indicated if metastasis cannot be demonstrated. Hypofunction of the adrenal cortex may be partially alleviated by the repeated implantation of pellets of desoxycorticosterone acetate. Hyperfunction of the adrenal cortex causes a variety of clinical manifestations depending upon which of the numerous hormones are affected. Removal of a cortical tumor alleviates these symptoms. These tumors are malignant in more than 50 per cent of cases, and recurrence is frequent. Bilateral hyperplasia of the glands rather than a tumor may be present. In such circumstances, resection of 95 per cent of the adrenal tissue is effective in controlling the symptoms of the disease. Total bilateral excision of the adrenals is, at present, under investigation as a means of treatment for a variety of conditions.
Decapsulation of the left kidney through a lumbar incision immediately prior to placing young rats on a choline-deficient diet afforded a significant degree of protection against animal mortality, compared with that which occurred as a result of the deficiency in the control groups. Decapsulation also was effective in reducing greatly the renal injury which developed in the decapsulated kidneys, as judged by a comparison of the decapsulated kidneys with the contralateral undecapsulated kidneys of the same animals. Decapsulation through an abdominal incision also was efficacious. Decapsulation after 4 or 5 days on the deficient diet, at which time relatively early renal lesions were present in most of the animals, afforded little if any protection. Experiments in which the usual adhesions between the decapsulated kidneys and surrounding tissues were prevented by covering the decapsulated kidneys with artificial capsules demonstrated that protection due to decapsulation could occur in the absence of adhesions. Renal denervation without removal of the renal capsule was not associated with a decrease in renal damage or animal mortality. Possible mechanisms of the protective effect of renal decapsulation in choline deficiency are discussed.
In a study of statistical data on 1,215 patients with carcinoma of the colon observed at a university hospital in a twenty-year period, it was noted that the overwhelming majority of patients who were living five years after operation had had no demonstrable extension to lymph nodes at the time of operation. In an increasing proportion of cases in the latter years of the period, diagnosis was made before the lesion was beyond an operable stage. What with today's better surgical techniques that make it possible to adapt operation to a variety of situations that may be encountered when the diseased area is visualized, and with better methods of preparing a patient and of sustaining him during operation, the wide excision so often necessary for cure may now be carried out deliberately and without hurry. The site of the lesion has great bearing on the prognosis, owing to the limits upon the extent of operation in some locations as against the possibility of wide excision of the original lesion and areas of metastasis in others.
Tumors of the adrenal glands produce hormones which cause a variety of symptoms and signs including high blood pressure, excessive growth of hair on the body and precocious sexual development. By recently developed tests, it has been possible to differentiate high blood pressure due to these tumors from hypertension due to other causes. Removal of these tumors will often alleviate changes caused by them. Localization of the tumor and appraisal of the condition of the contralateral gland should be carried out preoperatively if possible. In this, several kinds of roentgen studies are helpful. Infusions of drugs during operation can be used to control the blood pressure which otherwise would vary widely. During a ten-year period (1942 to 1951) there were observed at the Los Angeles County General Hospital 100 proved cases of non-secreting and secreting primary neoplasms of the adrenal glands. In addition, there were three cases of Cushing's syndrome due to bilateral adrenal cortical hyperplasia, and ten probable cases (four, pheochromocytomas; five, Cushing's syndrome; one, adrenogenital syndrome) in which operation was not done.
Albino rats weighing 160 to 175 gm. were fed a complete synthetic diet containing 0.003 per cent potassium and 0.7 per cent sodium for 40 days. Controls were given the same diet plus adequate added potassium. Data from analyses of serum and skeletal muscle showed a fall in serum chloride concentration and an increase in serum carbon dioxide concentration and pH in the potassium-deficient rats; increases of sodium, magnesium, and calcium and a decrease of potassium in the muscle of the potassium-deficient rats; no change of muscle chloride or carbon dioxide concentrations in the potassium-deficient rats. Application of the Wallace-Hastings calculations to these data revealed intracellular pH of the skeletal muscle of the normal rat to be 6.98 +/- 0.08; an increase in serum partial pressure of carbon dioxide (pCO(2)) in potassium deficiency, together with increases in concentrations of [H(2)CO(2)] and [HCO(3) (-)] per kg. extracellular water and [H(2)CO(3)] per kg. cell water; a decrease in values for [CO(2)] and [HCO(3) (-)] per kg. intracellular water; a fall of intracellular pH in potassium deficiency to 6.42 +/- 0.05. Analyses of sacrospinalis muscle from five men undergoing operation for ruptured intervertebral disc showed a mean value of 9.46 +/- 1.31 mM carbon dioxide per kg. blood-free tissue. Some problems of interpretation of data are briefly discussed.
Certain factors involved in the production of the generalized Shwartzman reaction with meningococcal toxin in rabbits were investigated. The optimal amounts of toxin for the preparing and provoking injections, and the optimal time interval between injections were determined. Under suitable conditions of dosage and timing, bilateral cortical necrosis of the kidneys was produced in a high proportion of animals. When excessive amounts of toxin were used for preparation the incidence of the reaction was reduced. Animals undergoing the generalized Shwartzman reaction became severely prostrated within several hours after the provoking injection of toxin. The renal lesion became fully developed within 24 hours, and its occurrence was associated with a rise of the blood non-protein nitrogen. Edema and petechial hemorrhages in the ears were observed in rabbits with advanced renal lesions. The earliest change in the kidneys in the generalized Shwartzman reaction was the appearance of homogeneous, eosinophilic material, resembling fibrinoid, within the lumen of the glomerular capillaries. Occlusion of the capillaries by this material was regarded as the cause of subsequent tubular necrosis in the renal cortex. The material appeared to be derived from the blood, rather than from the capillary walls. Cortisone enhanced the lethal effect of a single, large dose of meningococcal toxin, as well as causing bilateral renal cortical necrosis. The generalized Shwartzman reaction produced by two injections of toxin was aggravated by cortisone and ACTH. Profound polymorphonuclear leukopenia was produced by both the preparing and provoking injections of toxin. When leukopenia was produced before the preparing injection of toxin, by treatment with nitrogen mustard, the generalized Shwartzman reaction was inhibited. During the intervals before and after leukopenia, and when leukopenia was prevented by shielding the femoral bone marrow from the action of nitrogen mustard, no inhibition of the generalized Shwartzman phenomenon was demonstrable. Various colloidal and particulate materials, which are capable of provoking the local skin Shwartzman reaction when injected intravenously, failed to provoke the generalized Shwartzman reaction. A working hypothesis was set up to account for certain events in the generalized Shwartzman reaction.
When renin is administered intramuscularly to the rat, massive proteinuria occurs without a significant elevation of mean arterial blood pressure. The intravenous administration of renin to normal rats results in a great increase in urinary protein excretion. This response to renin is abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy. While the adrenalectomized rat fails to respond to intravenous renin with increased proteinuria, it does exhibit a normal elevation in mean arterial blood pressure. It is concluded that in the rat, the proteinuric property of renin is not related to the ability of this compound to elevate arterial blood pressure. The passage of plasma proteins has been followed through the kidney and into the urine by attaching them to the dye T-1824 (Evan's blue). The intra-peritoneal injection of renin causes a massive, transient proteinuria in the rat. From a study of frozen sections of the kidney of rats whose plasma proteins are labelled with T-1824, it is concluded that the preponderant basis for renin proteinuria is an increase in glomerular permeability.
The intimate relationship between the urinary and genital systems permits stimuli in one system to influence the other. At least 15 per cent of women with symptoms of cystitis have no organic basis for their complaints. In psychiatric studies it has been noted that sexual conflict is the primary etiological factor in these patients. In some cases, continuance of the disorder leads to irreversible organic change. Urinary symptoms such as frequency, urgency, burning or retention are most common in women and become an automatic response to anxiety-provoking or sexual stimuli. In men, functional urinary symptoms are relatively infrequent. Often they indicate problems of genital dysfunction. Complaints of impotence, penile pain, testicular pain, or non-specific urethritis stem back to difficulties in their sexual lives. Many of the patients have symptoms of a generalized anxiety tension state due to sexual problems.A purely organic consideration of genitourinary disorders will lead to erroneous conclusions and unsatisfactory therapeutic results. The psychosomatic approach-that is, considering both physical and psychological aspects-will explain many hitherto difficult cases.
Newer surgical and anesthetic techniques and the use of streptomycin and para-aminosalicylic acid (PAS) have made possible increased success in pulmonary resection for tuberculosis. Especially in early cases, however, bed rest and pneumothorax or pneumoperitoneum should be given adequate trial before resection is decided upon. In all cases a thorough bronchoscopic examination should be made first and the findings carefully evaluated. Pulmonary resection may be advisable for lesions of certain kinds which do not respond well to thoracotomy; for lesions which have not responded to trial of other methods; for a lung destroyed by tuberculosis; and in cases of active disease in an unexpanded lung. The experience of the author and of others emphasizes the importance of correct postoperative care. Since tuberculosis is rarely limited to the resected area, at least six months' rest in bed under medical supervision is necessary to permit cure of residual disease. Streptomycin with PAS is particularly valuable in the postoperative period; therefore indiscriminate use of it in earlier treatment should be avoided lest resistance develop.
In various amounts and mixtures, adenine, guanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine, thymine, thymidine, cytidylic acid, and an enzymatic digest of desoxyribonucleic acid all failed to influence the inhibition by sulfadiazine of the growth of psittacosis virus (6BC) in embryonated eggs. A number of purine analogues, including benzimidazole, 2,6-diaminopurine, and 8-azaguanine, inhibited the growth of psittacosis virus (6BC) in tissue cultures at concentrations which had no obvious toxic effects on the host tissues. The virus inhibitory action of 2,6-diaminopurine was reversed by addition of adenine and that of 8-azaguanine by guanine. The growth of psittacosis virus (6BC) was inhibited by the pteridine compounds 2-ammo-4-hydroxy-6-formylpteridine and xanthopterin, while other related substances had little or no inhibitory activity. Xanthine reversed the inhibitory effects of 2-amino-4-hydroxy-6-formylpteridine. There was no correlation between the inhibitory activity of the pteridines on xanthine oxidase and multiplication of the virus.
Based upon quantitative estimations of the factors that promote or retard the development and activity of the streptococcal fibrinolytic phenomenon, an active lytic system was developed within the circulating blood stream of rabbits following the intravenous infusion of streptokinase. During the infusion of adequate doses of SK, an active lytic system was observed to be present within 30 minutes following the beginning of the experiment and remained present for periods of time ranging from 1 to 20 hours depending primarily upon the concentration of SK and the duration of the infusion. Some of the biochemical changes accompanying the lytic system in vivo were: a striking fall in the plasminogen; a moderate fall in the serum inhibitor and the fibrinogen; and, a rise in the acid-soluble nitrogen. These changes were usually self-terminating within 24 hours following the infusion of SK. In earlier studies similar trends were observed in the chest fluid of patients with hemothorax and empyema treated locally with streptokinase (22). Intravascular clots, induced artificially by local applications of sodium morrhuate within the ear vein of the rabbits, were observed to liquefy and disappear in 23 of 25 rabbits during the intravenous infusion of SK into the opposite ear. The average quantity of SK necessary to effect an active lytic system was found to be about 40,000 units per kilo per hour. The clot in the ear vein was observed to be lysed completely in periods of time ranging from 3 to 7 hours after the infusion of SK was begun. Maintenance of an active lytic system for 3 to 4 additional hours was required to prevent re-formation of the clots at the original site. In 3 of 4 rabbits in which clots did reform, ACTH had been given to combat the toxic effects of the streptococcal concentrates. The toxicity of the unusually large dose of the streptococcal concentrates, containing measured amounts of SK, along with other identifiable and unknown substances, was considerable, inasmuch as 8 animals eventually died. No evidence of pulmonary infarction was observed at autopsy. The administration of ACTH appeared to prevent a fatal outcome in at least 3 of the rabbits. Further studies of toxicity are in progress.
Total ablation of an entire limb to remove a small benign granuloma or tumor is unthinkable. Yet when an entire pulmonary lobe is removed for a similar lesion the sacrifice of normal tissue and function is taken for granted. Operations upon the lung commenced with pneumonectomy, were made more selective by lobectomy, and now can be confined to resection of single pulmonary segments when the diseased area is no more extensive, or to single segments in several lobes if necessary. Technically the pulmonary segment is the unit of pulmonary resection. The separation of one from another, or even a half of one from the other half, can be accomplished with anatomical accuracy. More widespread use of this operation will provide surgical aid to many bronchiectatic patients who otherwise are afflicted with disease too widespread for cure. It will conserve healthy lung tissue in benign conditions where removal of the diseased area is necessary. The technical steps of pulmonary segmental resection are outlined and illustrated.
Cortisone produces a significant enhancement of infection with MEF1 and Lansing strains of poliomyelitis virus in the Syrian hamster. The enhancement manifests itself in increased severity of symptoms, shortening of the incubation period, marked reduction in survival time and a high mortality rate. The effect of cortisone is protracted, the duration depending on the dose used. There is a reciprocal relationship between the dose of cortisone and the amount of virus, the larger the dose of the hormone, the smaller the amount of virus being necessary to produce the infection. An amount of virus of low infectivity causes amarked disease with a high mortality rate in hamsters receiving a single injection of 3 mg. of cortisone, while a dose as small as 2 mg. gives a highly fatal disease with a stronger concentration of the virus. There is a 2 log increase in the concentration of the virus in cortisone-treated hamsters. Hamsters from various sources seem to respond differently to the enhancing effect of cortisone, one breed showing no enhancement of the infection with the Lansing strain. Hormones other than cortisone, i.e., DCA, progesterone, diethylstilbestrol, and fast and slow acting ACTH injected repeatedly fail to modify the poliomyelitis infection in the hamster.
The effects of cholesterol dosage, cortisone, and desoxycorticosterone acetate on total serum cholesterol, lipoproteins, and atherosclerosis were studied over a period of 112 days in thirty-two rabbits. Cholesterol was administered by feeding the rabbits diets containing 0.063, 0.25, and 1.0 per cent cholesterol At intervals measurements were made of total serum cholesterol and of low density lipid and lipoprotein components of three classes, S(f), 5-9, S(f) 10-15, and S(f) 16-30. All three classes of lipoproteins increased with cholesterol feeding. The total serum cholesterol concentration was linearly related to both the quantity of cholesterol consumed and its concentration in the diet. Lipoprotein and total serum cholesterol concentrations were significantly and equally well correlated with the severity of atherosclerosis. Cortisone administration in the normal rabbit increased the concentrations of total cholesterol and of lipoprotein components of the S(f) 10-15 and S(f) 16-30 classes, but did not produce atherosclerosis. Cortisone treatment in cholesterol-fed rabbits did not significantly affect the levels of serum lipoproteins, cholesterol concentration, or atherosclerosis produced by a 1.0 per cent cholesterol diet alone. Values for total cholesterol and S(f) 5-9 class of lipoproteins in DCA-treated animals were lower than those in controls but the degree of atherosclerosis was not significantly less.
Sera from 81 patients with a diagnosis of paralytic or non-paralytic poliomyelitis, and from 159 individuals of similar age groups giving no history of the disease, were tested with a high titered, complement-fixing poliomyelitis antigen of Type 2 (Lansing-like). The antigen consisted of brain tissue from newborn mice injected with the MEF1 strain of virus as previously adapted to these animals. The presence or absence of Type 2 neutralizing antibody in the sera under test was found not to affect the complement fixation. Positive reactions were obtained with 57 per cent of the sera deriving from non-paralytic patients and in 70 per cent from paralytics, when the specimens were tested at a dilution of 1:16. The complement-fixing antibody was often present in highest titer as early as 24 hours after the onset of poliomyelitis, and in almost all instances within 7 days. In about half of the patients a 4-fold or greater drop in titer occurred within 3 months, with little or no change in the others. The incidence of titers of 1:16 or higher with the control sera varied with the season of the year at which they were procured, 3 per cent of the winter samples proving positive and 13 per cent of the summer. The tests of sera from the group of patients from whom poliomyelitis virus was recovered, disclosed no significant differences between those having the paralytic and those having the non-paralytic disease. Type 1 (Brunhilde-like) strains of virus were recovered from many of the patients yielding positive tests, although they presented no evidence of previous or concurrent infection with Type 2 virus. This finding shows that Type 1 virus can give rise in patients to Type 2 complement-fixing antibody. The application of these data to the serologic diagnosis of poliomyelitis infection in man will of necessity be limited until information is obtained on the development, persistence, and significance of complement-fixation reactions with antigens deriving from Type 1 and Type 3 poliomyelitis strains.
CF tests with Type 2 poliomyelitis antigen (MEF1) were performed on the pre- and postinfection sera of 20 cynomolgus monkeys which developed paralytic, non-paralytic, or inapparent infection following oral administration of a Type 2 strain of virus (Y-SK). All the monkeys developed neutralizing antibody, and 17 developed CF antibody in an original serum dilution titer of 1:4 or greater. The 3 monkeys which did not develop this level of CF antibody were in a group of 7 which died within 8 days after onset of paralysis. The CF titers were as high at 2 to 6 days after onset of paralysis in the other 4 moribund or dead monkeys as in the surviving animals tested 4 weeks after the first dose of virus and the CF titers were of the same order of magnitude in the groups with paralytic, non-paralytic, or inapparent infection. The Type 2 poliomyelitis CF titers developed in monkeys as a result of infection with homotypic virus were not greater than those found in human beings infected with heterotypic Type 1 poliomyelitis strains.
All analysis of the mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of the visceral lesions produced by Shiga toxin in the dog has indicated that the structural changes are produced by a vascular mechanism which is under control of the sympathetic nervous system. Paralysis of the latter at the myoneural junction or in the ganglia by means of drugs served to prevent the tissue changes as well as the hyperglycemia and hemoconcentration characteristic of the sympathomimetic response. The observations indicated that the toxin acted via a mechanism located in the central nervous system. Further studies of the action of Shiga toxin by means of cerebral cross-circulation are reported here. In these the cerebral blood flow of one dog derived from the circulation of the trunk and limbs of another. Injection of the toxin into the femoral vein of this latter dog resulted in the appearance of visceral lesions, hemoconcentration, and hyperglycemia in the former whose brain only received blood containing the toxin. The resulting visceral changes were identical with those observed in the intact unanesthetized dog which had received the toxin directly. The observations indicate that, in dogs, Shiga toxin produces its characteristic visceral lesions via the central nervous system. Possible mechanisms are discussed.
The metamorphosis of the Cecropia silkworm is accompanied by large and systematic changes in the insect's sensitivity to diphtheria toxin. Injection of less than 1 gamma of toxin into mature caterpillars, prepupae, or developing adults causes cessation of development followed by delayed death 1 to 5 weeks later. Dormant pupae, on the contrary, are resistant to 70 gamma of toxin and may survive even this enormous dose for over 4 weeks. One-hundredth of this dose, however, prevents pupae from initiating adult development. Tetanus toxin, to which the insect is insensitive, failed to duplicate any of these effects. Maximal sensitivity to diphtheria toxin is characteristic of those stages in the life history which depend on the presence and function of the cytochrome system. Resistance to the toxin, as in the case of the diapausing pupa, is correlated with the existence and utilization of metabolic pathways other than the usual cytochrome system. This correlation persists within the individual insect. Thus, within the diapausing pupa, the toxin fails to affect the heart in which a normal cytochrome system is absent, but, within the same insect, causes a degeneration of the intersegmental muscles in which an intact cytochrome system is present. These several lines of evidence are interpreted in support of the conclusion that diphtheria toxin acts by blocking the synthesis of one or more components in the cytochrome system.
Poliomyelitis virus, when ingested by cynomolgus monkeys in their regular food, infected peripheral ganglia (nodose) as early as the 3rd day, as shown by recovery of the virus. Conditions on the 2nd and 4th days were not investigated, but on the 5th and 6th days, virus was recovered from the Gasserian and nodose ganglia, and from the superior cervical sympathetic and celiac ganglia. The findings indicate that the method of oropharyngeal swabbing used in a study already reported and the method of simple feeding used in the present study produce comparable results. Viremia, noted in the present study, was contemporaneous with virus recoveries from the ganglia. Reasons are presented why the peripheral ganglia are the most probable source of viremia since these are the only known site of early lesions (which are typical and appear as early as the 2nd day after oral infection) and no lesions are known to occur in extraneural tissues. Invasion of the CNS occurred in 3 animals out of 11; one on the 5th and 2 on the 6th day. Whether this was due to viremia or to centripetal extension along axonal channels is not clear.
A histologic and quantitative immunologic study was made on a large group of rabbits injected intravenously with a single dose of crystallized bovine albumin and bled and sacrificed at various intervals after injection. Both cardiovascular and renal lesions were encountered in high incidence. The various stages in the development of these lesions were observed from their first appearance until their complete regression. The cardiac, vascular, and renal alterations were morphologically similar to those of rheumatic fever, polyarteritis nodosa, and acute glomerulonephritis, respectively, in man. In addition to those tissue changes ordinarily attributed to hypersensitivity, peculiar granulomatous lesions consisting of epithelioid and foreign body giant cells were encountered in the follicles of the spleen and in the lymph nodes of a large proportion of the animals receiving the antigen. Similar granulomas in the spleen and lymph nodes as well as in other tissues have been described in polyarteritis nodosa. The present experimental demonstration that an epithelioid and giant cell reaction may result from hypersensitivity provides evidence for the allergic origin of those cases of polyarteritis nodosa of unknown etiology containing this type of lesion. In the present study the time of development of the cardiovascular, renal, and granulomatous lesions was determined in relation to the blood clearance of antigen and the time of appearance of circulating antibody. All the tissue lesions developed during the "immune" phase of antigen elimination and regressed after the antigen had been completely eliminated and free antibody had appeared in the circulation. These temporal relationships indicate that the tissue lesions which occur after the intravenous administration of foreign protein are the result of antigen-antibody combination.
About 28 per cent of men between the ages of 71 and 75 have cancer of the prostate. Many of them do not die of the disease, but with the life span ever increasing, this problem is becoming more important. In the early stages the condition is asymptomatic; when the symptoms of urinary obstruction arise, the cancer is usually too advanced for cure. Cure depends on early diagnosis and, therefore, on routine rectal examination. The solitary hard nodule of early prostatic cancer becomes a stony hard fixed prostate as the condition progresses. X-ray and acid phosphatase studies are of help only after the cancer has metastasized. As many as 50 per cent of patients with rectally palpable early carcinoma of the prostate can be cured by radical perineal prostatectomy. Often, simple enucleation or transurethral resection is sufficient to effect cure in the case of occult carcinoma. However, some observers believe that when cancer is detected by microscopic examination of a prostate that has been removed, a radical operation should be done as soon after the initial operation as feasible. Early orchidectomy and estrogen therapy are of considerable help in slowing the process of advanced prostatic cancer and may postpone the need of transurethral resection to relieve obstruction. When these measures fail, bilateral adrenalectomy, cortisone therapy, pituitary irradiation, and pituitary extirpation have been employed, with moderate success, in an effort to diminish the androgen level.
It is doubtful that the tonsils or adenoids contribute sufficiently to immunity or to hematopoiesis to warrant withholding adenotonsillectomy when there is need for the operation. Focal infection, rheumatic fever and allergic disease must be evaluated in the individual case. A seldom discussed reason for operation is the prophylaxis or treatment of malformation of the nose, sinuses, mouth and jaw. Well defined indications for adenotonsillectomy include frequent occurrence of infection, peritonsillar abscess, cervical lymph node disease believed caused by tonsillar infection, otitis media, and hypertrophy sufficient to embarrass swallowing or breathing. The operation may also be indicated in certain cases of impaired hearing, halitosis, or anorexia, and sometimes for carriers of diphtheria. Psychic trauma can be obviated by proper preparation of a child for the operation he is to undergo. There is a good evidence of evidence of relationship between recent adenotonsillectomy and infection with poliomyelitis-and a good deal of evidence to the contrary. Nationwide rules cannot be established on the basis of the evidence presented thus far. Since in many cases it is unwise to put off adenotonsillectomy, each case in each community in each season must be evaluated separately.
Inhalation, skin absorption or ingestion of insecticides containing organic phosphorus may result in abrupt onset of serious illness several hours following exposure. Because of the acute onset, often at night, the patients usually are observed by the first available physician rather than by an industrial physician. Prompt recognition and adequate treatment are essential to prevent death. The organic phosphorus radical has the specific effect of inactivating cholinesterase in the body. When cholinesterase is reduced below a critical level continuous stimulation of the entire parasympathetic nervous system results. The major symptoms are diarrhea, vomiting, pulmonary edema, respiratory difficulty and tonic convulsions. Myosis is frequently present and when found is almost pathognomonic, especially if associated with other symptoms. Treatment consists essentially of heroic doses of atropine or a similar parasympathetic inhibitor, plus supportive therapy. Patients who do not die recover rapidly and completely, but they should not risk re-exposure until cholinesterase activity in the blood reaches a static level which may take as long as ten weeks.
Certain morphological differences render it possible to recognize duck erythrocytes after introduction into the circulating blood of chick embryos infected with P. lophurae. 4 hours afterward, considerable numbers of merozoites have entered duck erythrocytes, while the parasitemia of the chick itself remains essentially unchanged in degree. By estimating the numbers of potentially invading merozoites from blood films made at the time of introduction of duck cells, it was learned that a relatively constant rate of invasion into duck cells by merozoites was maintained. In counter-distinction there was an ever increasing merozoite death rate in embryos not receiving duck cells concurrent with the increase in numbers of parasites. After the injection into parasitized embryos of duck erythrocytes showing but few parasites, no difference was apparent in the rate of merozoite invasion into the introduced cells and the host cells, respectively; but when the percentage of duck cells was greater, the rate of merozoite penetration diminished to zero. The selective penetration of duck erythrocytes which, under the experimental conditions obtaining, constituted only 30 per cent of the total cell numbers of most, and the inability of the merozoites to move independently, taken together, suggest that the greater susceptibility of the duck erythrocyte may be due to greater numbers of accessible areas on its surface. The decreased susceptibility following parasitization indicates that the presence of the parasite alters the cell in such wise that entry of additional parasites is rendered more difficult.
Carbon-14-labeled plasma proteins given by mouth to dogs with sterile abscesses undergo decreased absorption, presumably owing to impaired digestion of protein. The turnover of plasma albumin is greatly accelerated but the globulins, excluding fibrinogen, show little change during the acute stage of the sterile inflammation. Fibrinogen shows very rapid production and utilization during acute inflammation. Large amounts of C(14) are incorporated in fibrinogen within a few hours after ingestion of the labeled material. The labeled fibrinogen largely disappears within 2 to 4 days after its production. The appearance of C(14) in new red cells from labeled protein or amino acid sources is reduced by inflammation-evidence of impaired synthesis. The pus of the sterile abscess contains a good deal of C(14) activity which at times is as much as that found in the liver. Pus cell C(14) activity per milliliter is similar after injection of labeled plasma and ingestion of labeled plasma or lysine. However, the pus cell fraction contains 3 to 4 times more C(14) activity per milliliter than does the supernatant fluid when the isotope is fed. In the supernatant fluid the activity is all within precipitable protein, much of which is probably derived from the blood plasma. In spite of increased loss of C(14) as CO(2) in the expired air and in the pus, there is evidence of conservation of protein-building materials for maintenance of new plasma proteins and tissue proteins in the more active organs (e.g. liver)-a shift of protein C(14) from the less active tissues (muscle and skin).
The characteristic phenomena of acute gouty arthritis are acute arthritis in a middle-aged male, associated with serum uric acid above 6 mg. per 100 cc. and a satisfactory response to colchicine. Roentgenographically observable changes do not occur early. In recent years uric acid metabolism has been studied by means of isotope techniques utilizing labeled substances. Uric acid is excreted in relatively constant amounts by humans and is little affected by variations in dietary intake, except for purine or nucleic acid substances. Persons with gout have a greater total amount of uric acid and a lower turnover than normal persons. In the treatment of acute attacks of gout colchicine is still the most practical single drug, even though its pharmacologic action remains unknown. Benemid (probenecid) is a powerful uricosuric agent of low toxicity which has been subjected to extensive clinical trial for three years. It causes inhibition of the resorption of urate from the glomerular filtrate; the site of action is believed to be the tubular cells. The author's usual dose is 2 gm. a day. This has caused a lowering of the uric acid in the serum and an increase in the urinary output.
Penicillin remains the most useful antibiotic for treatment of infections due to organisms sensitive to this drug because of its bacteriocidal properties and its freedom from toxicity. Enormous doses may broaden its antibacterial spectrum and it may act synergistically with certain other drugs. New penicillin compounds have been developed which serve such special purposes as concentration in lung tissue, maintenance of therapeutic concentrations in the blood for long periods after injection, avoidance of allergic reactions and prolongation of therapeutic content in the blood after oral administration. Erythromycin and carbomycin may be effective against bacterial infections not sensitive to other antibacterial drugs. Streptomycin combined with dihydrostreptomycin is less toxic than is either drug used alone. Isoniazid is a valuable antituberculosis drug, especially when combined with streptomycin.Viomycin may be useful in treating tuberculous infections that have become resistant to other specific drugs.
The collagen diseases, an ill-defined group of clinical entities, have as their basis a generalized alteration of the connective tissue, especially of its extracellular components. They include periarteritis nodosa, disseminated lupus erythematosus, dermatomyositis, scleroderma, rheumatic fever and rheumatoid arthritis. The radiological findings in a series of cases of these diseases were reviewed. In 28 cases of periarteritis, 20 cases showed some abnormal findings in the thorax. These included pleural effusions, pulmonary changes, pericardial effusions and cardiac enlargement. In 32 cases of disseminated lupus erythematosus, thoracic findings were noted in They resembled the changes found in periarteritis. In some 25 cases of scleroderma, diverse radiological findings were noted. These included "cystic" changes in the lungs (one case) and pulmonary "hives." In the intestinal tract esophageal and small bowel alterations were found, both ectatic and stenotic. In the soft tissues of the "pressure areas" variable degrees of calcification were observed. Dermatomyositis is the rarest of the collagen disease group; only one autopsy-proven case is available for study. Chest x-rays taken a year before death showed slight cardiac enlargement. The lungs were clear. In acute rheumatic fever, x-ray examination may disclose pericardial or pleural effusion, and so-called rheumatic pneumonitis; the latter has no specific diagnostic features. Soft tissue swellings may develop around some of the joints. In rheumatoid arthritis, joint changes are numerous and fairly characteristic, and are followed in many cases by fibrous or bony ankylosis and deformities of considerable degree. Awareness of the commoner radiological changes in this entire group of diseases should result in earlier establishment of diagnosis, especially in the more obscure examples.
Among new researches bearing on cerebral palsy are the growth of brain cells in tissue cultures for experimentation; the use of polysaccharides to prevent the formation of a glial barrier to nerve growth after injury; observation of changes in reactions of neurons at various stages of development; the finding of hypernatremia and hyperchloremia in lesions of the frontal lobe and the thalamus; stimulation of cerebral blood flow by injection of sodium bicarbonate and retardation with ammonium chloride; and studies of serial sections of brains of palsied children who died. Study of development in the early months of life has made possible the detection of significant abnormalities in behavior early in life. Loss of hearing may be tested in very young children by measuring minute variations in electrical resistance of the skin upon auditory stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. Conditions which have been described as having been confused with cerebral palsy are dislocation of a cervical vertebra, hereditary spastic paraplegia, transverse myelopathy, injury to the spinal cord or cauda equina by anomalous growths of the spine, and also encephalitis and meningitis. Sedation has proved a valuable adjunct to electroencephalographic study of cerebral palsy. Better criteria for abnormality in the young child should be determined and the application of them more clearly standardized. Simple exercises are useful for early training of palsied children to stimulate development. "Crossed laterality"-the dominant eye being contralateral to the preferred hand-has been counteracted by special training with great success in eliminating emotional and behavior problems and accelerating development.Recent studies indicate that only 50 per cent of cerebral palsy patients have normal or better intelligence. Subluxation of the hip joint, a common deformity associated with cerebral palsy, can sometimes be corrected by operation if detected at an early stage. Radical ablation of epileptogenic foci in the cortex is also being done in young patients if drug control of seizures fails. Frontal topectomy, cingulate gyrectomy or prefrontal labotomy may be advisable in cases in which proper response to drug therapy is not obtained. Improvement in behavior as well as control of seizures may follow the use of Benzedrine,(R) Dexedrine,(R) Dilantin(R) sodium, Mebaral(R) and phenobarbital. Alcohol, paraldehyde and chloral hydrate have been effective as relaxants.
Further studies on fever production by injection of leukocyte extracts or cell-free supernatant fluids from peritoneal exudates in rabbits are reported. Granulocytes collected from peripheral blood or from pleural exudates contain a heat-labile pyrogenic substance. The material in extracts of leukocytes and in peritoneal fluids, which causes fever, is destroyed by heating for 30 minutes at 90 degrees C. at pH 7.2 and at 70 degrees C. at pH 4.5. It is active in producing fever over a pH range of 2.0 to 10.5 and maintains potency for as long as 6 months at 4 degrees C. The fever-producing substance in leukocyte extracts is not dialyzable. Its activity is not destroyed by trypsin, chymotrypsin, or ribonuclease. No evidence of plasma activator or inhibitor was detected. Significant temperature elevation in the rabbit was effected by a quantity of leukocyte extract containing 0.76 mg. protein and 0.054 mg. polysaccharide. The febrile response produced by the material under study was compared with that of Menkin's pyrexin as well as with that of bacterial pyrogens. Several significant differences were noted. The properties of pyrexin are similar to those of bacterial pyrogens. Amidopyrine suppressed the febrile response to injection of leukocyte extracts, whereas neither amidopyrine nor cortisone influenced the appearance of pyrogenic material in induced peritoneal exudates. Peritoneal fluids collected from rabbits made leukopenic by HN(2) were found to contain a fever-promoting substance. Its character has yet to be determined. It is concluded that there is present in polymorphonuclear leukocytes of rabbits a heat-labile factor capable of producing fever in rabbits and that the leukocyte is probably not the only source of such a factor.
To assess the curative value of different drugs in bubonic plague infection, white mice were infected in the laboratory with living Pasteurella pestis, and the treatment with the drug to be tested was begun either 48 or 72 hours after infection, it taking 48-72 hours for the development in mice of septicaemia-the decisive factor in plague infection. Sulfathiazole, sulfapyridine, sulfamerazine, sulfamethazine, sulfadiazine, antiplague serum, penicillin, streptomycin, aureomycin, chloramphenicol, and oxytetracycline were tested. Sulfapyridine and penicillin gave no protection, but the remainder had a curative effect in 50% or more of the animals. The antibiotics, in particular, with the exception of penicillin, protected 90%-100%.Trials were then carried out on humans under controlled conditions in the field-antiplague serum, sulfapyridine, sulfathiazole, sulfamerazine, sulfadiazine, and streptomycin being tested. While there were no statistically significant differences between the results obtained with the various drugs, the clinical effect of streptomycin was striking. In all cases treated with this substance the temperature reverted to normal earlier than with sulfadiazine or sulfamerazine, and in septicaemic cases it became normal in 50 hours, on the average, against 85 hours and 89 hours for sulfadiazine and sulfamerazine respectively.
Cortisone acetate, hydrocortisone, and hydrocortisone acetate depress the resistance of mice to pneumococcal and influenza viral infections, although hydrocortisone acetate is somewhat less effective than the free alcohol, when given subcutaneously. Pituitary adrenocorticotropin, even in highly purified form and in oil and beeswax, does not significantly alter the resistance of mice to these experimental infections, even when given in doses which may cause profound eosinopenia, lymphopenia, and weight loss, and which are at the limit of tolerance of the animals. Corticosterone depresses resistance to pneumococcal infections significantly, but fails to alter resistance to influenza viral infections. The findings suggest that murine adrenals may produce one of the known adrenal steroids such as corticosterone along with another steroid, or may produce a steroid other than cortisone, hydrocortisone, or corticosterone. When resistance is decreased by adrenal steroids, survival time is invariably shortened, and the effect of the steroid hormones is frequently demonstrable within the 1st day after infection with pneumococci, making it unlikely that the depression of resistance that is seen is primarily due to depression of antibody formation. A single dose of 5 mg. of cortisone may cause depression of resistance and may decrease the survival time for 3 to 6 days afterward. Growth hormone (somatotropic hormone) in highly purified form, and in the doses used, did not overcome the weight loss induced by cortisone, but the animals treated with growth hormone and cortisone regained their lost weight more rapidly than those receiving cortisone alone. Growth hormone alone caused a slight increase in the rate of gain in weight over controls. Growth hormone alone did not increase resistance to infection, and did not increase the survival time, in mice infected with either pneumococci or influenza virus. Growth hormone in various dosages failed to overcome the effect of cortisone in depressing resistance to these infections. Cortisone, hydrocortisone, corticosterone, and corticotropin did not alter significantly the titers of influenza virus attained in the murine lungs during the first 2 days after infection, but cortisone and hydrocortisone markedly delayed the rate at which virus titers declined during the subsequent 6 days. Corticosterone and corticotropin delayed the rate at which the titers declined but slightly, and growth hormone had no apparent effect, as compared with controls. Growth hormone did not overcome the effect of cortisone and hydrocortisone on viral titers. No detectable antibody was found as late as 6 days after infection, in controls or in hormone-treated animals.
Because of the wide variety of x-rays now available, selectivity is possible and important in treatment of diseases of the eye. By the use of short-range radiation, newly developed eye shields and the insulation of the eyelid itself, and by careful angulation of the beam, the desired irradiation can be given where it is needed without injury to surrounding tissues. The authors have found the 50 kv x-ray unit to be the most reliable and adaptable for most circumstances. The skin of the eyelid reacts to irradiation more sensitively than other tissues. The cornea reacts with keratitis and sometimes intractable ulceration. The iris, uveal tract and retina are less seriously affected. At the University of California Hospital irradiation has been found satisfactory for treatment of corneal ulcer, keratitis, pterygium, certain types of conjunctivitis, episcleritis, corneal vascularization, iritis, uveitis, and hemangioma. Irradiation may be of great benefit in absolute glaucoma with pain and blindness. Of 42 patients with carcinoma of the eyelid treated between 1935 and 1946, 27 had no recurrence in five years, 5 had recurrence, 7 died of other causes and follow-up was incomplete on Good cosmetic result was usually achieved. No recurrence has been observed in 22 patients treated since Irradiation has been used with success in other kinds of cancer of the eye structures.
The diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus-a relatively common disease-is difficult because of the variable nature of the symptoms, which resemble those of many other conditions. The finding of the characteristic cells is pathognomonic, although failure to find them does not rule out the diagnosis. If the diagnosis is suspected the "L.E." cell test should be performed on two samples of blood from the veins and one from the bone marrow. After separation of a haparinized sample by centrifuge, a drop from the buffy coat is Wright-stained on a slide and examined for rouleaux formation and for a hematoxylinstaining material sometimes seen in intercellular bodies (which may be surrounded by a rosette of leukocytes) and sometimes seen as ingested by a leukocyte. Only the last finding is positively diagnostic of lupus erythematosus.A statistical analysis of 62 cases treated at the Los Angeles County General Hospital is given. Because of the frequency of rheumatoidlike arthritic changes in the disease, all patients with this form of arthritis should be given the test. Spontaneous remission and then relapse after a long asymptomatic interval occurred in many cases. With early diagnosis and vigorous treatment with cortisone and corticotropin, many patients can be relieved of symptoms.
An experiment was performed to determine the effect of cortisone on the serum lipids and on the development of experimental cholesterol atherosclerosis in the rabbit. Litter mate rabbits of the same sex were employed; both sexes were represented in the experiment. The report is based upon four experimental groups comprising 12 rabbits fed cholesterol and treated with cortisone vehicle; 12 rabbits fed cholesterol and treated daily with cortisone; 11 rabbits treated with cortisone; and 7 rabbits that received cortisone vehicle. It was observed that: There was less aortic atherosclerosis in the cholesterol-fed cortisone-treated rabbits as judged by both morphological and chemical means than in the rabbits fed cholesterol without cortisone treatment. Cortisone depressed appreciably the hypercholesterolemia resulting from the feeding of cholesterol to rabbits. Cortisone treatment caused a moderate hypercholesterolemia in normal rabbits. Cortisone caused a moderate increase in serum lipid phosphorus equal to that produced by cholesterol feeding alone. The combination of cholesterol feeding and cortisone did not result in a higher phospholipidemia than either one of these agents alone. Cortisone caused a great increase in serum-neutral fat; it was not apparent whether cholesterol feeding affected the neutral fat lipemia due to cortisone treatment alone. The total cholesterol to lipid phosphorus ratio was about normal in the rabbits that received cortisone only. It was doubled in the animals receiving both cholesterol and cortisone, and it was increased about four times in those that received only cholesterol. The significance of the alterations in the serum lipids induced by cortisone is discussed in relation to the inhibition of the development of aortic atherosclerosis that occurred in the cholesterol-fed rabbits treated with cortisone.
Focal necrosis of cardiac and skeletal muscle was produced regularly in rabbits by means of a single intravenous or intra-arterial injection of a solution of crude papain. Similar lesions were produced in rats and mice injected with this material. The intravenous injection of solutions of ficin, trypsin, and streptokinase also resulted in comparable lesions of cardiac and skeletal muscle in rabbits. The lesions in the myocardium became apparent within 6 hours after injection of the enzyme; they consisted essentially of focal degeneration and necrosis of the sarcoplasm and myofibrils within a segment of muscle fiber. An inflammatory reaction consisting of a small number of polymorphonuclear leukocytes and considerable numbers of mononuclear cells, and often multi-nucleated giant cells, was present within the lesions. In some instances severely damaged fibers were replaced by fibrous tissue and in others proliferation of muscle cell nuclei and restitution of the fiber appeared to take place. Similar changes of a lesser degree were also observed in skeletal muscle. The findings are discussed in connection with the pathogenesis of the anatomical lesions of rheumatic fever, periarteritis nodosa, and other hypersensitivity states.
A new penicillin salt-N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine dipenicillin G (Bicillin)(a)-was given, in single injections of 2,500,000 units, to 196 patients with early infectious syphilis. The seronegativity rates after three months were 65% for primary syphilis cases and 25% for secondary syphilis patients; after six months, the rates were 80% and 60%, respectively. At the end of the 21-month observation period, satisfactory results were recorded in 96.6%-100.0% of the primary syphilis patients, and in 92%-95% of those treated for secondary syphilis. The respective cumulative re-treatment rates were 3.4% and 4.1%.The results of the secondary syphilis treatment were then compared with those obtained with single-injection schedules of 2,400,000 and 4,800,000 units of procaine penicillin G in oil with 2% aluminium monostearate (PAM). The cumulative re-treatment rates 21 months after treatment were: Bicillin, 4.1%; PAM (2.4 million units), 14.2%; and PAM (4.8 million units), 5.1%. It would thus appear that a single injection of 2,500,000 units of Bicillin is as effective as one of 4,800,000 units of PAM.
A clinical and pathological study was made of a series of 34 consecutive patients with thyroid carcinoma. Carcinoma occurred only in nodular goiters, and in the majority of cases was found in a gland with a solitary nodule. The degree of firmness to palpation of a thyroid nodule is unimportant in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the thyroid since hardness was an infrequent finding. In the diagnostic use of radioactive iodine, scintigram studies of a nodular goiter usually revealed an area of decreased function at the site of a thyroid carcinoma.Twenty-three per cent of the 34 patients with thyroid carcinoma died within five years. The duration of survival for various patients was compared with the type of treatment administered. It is believed that solitary thyroid nodules are best treated by lobectomy. Total thyroidectomy is indicated in cases of large thyroid carcinoma and also for smaller tumors if papillary adenocarcinoma. Radical neck dissection is warranted if lymph node metastasis is present and limited to the neck; and also in the absence of metastasis if the tumor is papillary in histologic pattern. Surgically inaccessible metastatic lesions are best palliated by radioactive iodine or external irradiation.
1) 3-Acetyl pyridine has been found to be quite toxic when administered to mice. Simultaneous administration of nicotinamide or DPN protects against the toxicity of acetyl pyridine. Nicotinic acid and tryptophan do not protect animals from the lethal effects of the compound. 2) Nicotinamide inhibits the formation of the 3-acetyl pyridine analog of DPN from acetyl pyridine and DPN in mouse brain homogenates. Nicotinic acid has no inhibitory effect on analog synthesis. 3) Administration of acetyl pyridine results in a fourfold increase in the DPN level of the lever. No acetyl pyridine analog of DPN is found in the liver after injection of the antimetabolite. 4) Injection of acetyl pyridine into tumor mice results in the formation of the acetyl pyridine analog of DPN in the neoplastic tissues. A decrease in DPN concentration is associated with the analog synthesis. The DPN analog has been isolated from tumor tissue and identified. 5) The results are discussed with respect to the significance of enzymatically catalyzed exchange reactions in chemotherapy.
The mechanisms of immunity and allergy, at play in every infectious disease, must be comprehended before the pathogenesis of an infection can be appreciated.Immunity, allergy and serology are concerned with specific antigen-antibody reactions. In immunity the principal concern is with the final disposition of antigen (agglutination, lysis, and phagocytosis). In allergy attention is focused upon tissue damage resulting from antigen-antibody union. In serology interest is devoted to the presence of antibody as evaluated by certain visible in vitro reactions-precipitin, agglutination, opsonization and complement fixation tests. There are two types of allergic reaction-the immediate or anaphylactic type and the delayed type or the allergic disease of infection. Neither kind takes part in the mechanism of immunity. At this time the allergic antibody and the immune antibody must be considered as two different and distinct antibodies. Skin and serologic tests are important diagnostic aids in certain pulmonary mycotic infections-for example, coccidioidomycosis, blastomycosis, histoplasmosis and moniliasis. Clinical expressions of allergy may appear in coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis and moniliasis. Pulmonary mycoses are divided into three groups, that is, the endogenous mycoses (actinomycosis, moniliasis, geotrichosis), the endogenous-exogenous mycoses (cryptococcosis, aspergillosis, mucormycosis) and the exogenous mycoses (nocardiosis, coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, North American blastomycosis). The diagnosis and treatment of the important mycotic infections that invade lung tissue are discussed.
Bronchiectasis, for which once only the most elementary palliation could be offered, now often can be cured by operation or well controlled by conservative therapy. Since true bronchiectasis implies irreversible anatomic changes, operation offers the only hope of cure, and it should be undertaken whenever it is not contraindicated by extent of involvement, age of the patient or other factors. Surgical results are excellent and mortality is at a minimum. When operation is prohibited, good results can still be anticipated by conservative measures. Such conservative therapy should combine prolonged use of antimicrobial drugs with adequate drainage of the diseased segments and general supportive measures. Any residual infection can be controlled by moderate use of appropriate antimicrobial agents. It is emphasized, however, that the control of bronchiectasis requires very careful diagnostic studies and a detailed analysis of the patient's condition, and that the therapy itself must be carefully adjusted in terms of the individual situation.
A classification of asthma into allergic and nonallergic has gained support from the more recent studies on the underlying causes of the disease. The majority of instances of nonallergic asthma occur after middle life and result from recurrent infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract. Status asthmaticus is a frequent complication of infectious asthma. Chronic and intractable asthma may be present also in a patient with allergic asthma complicated by a superimposed infection of the sinuses, bronchi and lungs. There are many secondary or precipitating causes that may bring on asthmatic paroxysms. The most important of these are acute respiratory infections, mechanical and chemical irritants, autonomic imbalance, hormonal deficiencies and psychogenic influences. These secondary causes play a more important role in nonallergic asthma because of the greater tendency to chronicity in this form of the disease. The effective treatment of chronic asthma depends largely on the successful control of the secondary or precipitating causes of the asthmatic attacks. The introduction of the antibiotics and corticosteroids in the treatment of infectious asthma has supplied potent weapons to combat the disease. The use of these therapeutic agents makes possible the control of two of the important pathologic lesions of asthma-bronchial infection and bronchial inflammation. At present combined antibiotic and cortisone or hydrocortisone therapy of asthma seems to be the most rational method of preventing the disease from becoming chronic and intractable. Their value in infectious asthma is due to their anti-infective and antiflammatory action. When prolonged treatment is essential, combined therapy also lessens the dangers arising from the presence of masked infections.
Therapy with systemic corticosteroids, despite attendant serious risks, is mandatory in diseases such as pemphigus, acute disseminated lupus erythematosus and some cases of exfoliative dermatitis that are ordinarily fatal, for in such cases life may be prolonged and the patients made comfortable. If no contraindications exist, therapy with corticosteroids is desirable, for diseases of short duration-contact dermatitis, serum sickness reactions and drug eruptions of all kinds-provided the causative factors have been removed and the reactions are causing severe distress.On the basis of encouraging reports in the literature corticosteroid therapy may be instituted with justification for a group of unrelated, intractable and discomforting diseases such as maddening pruritus ani, sclerema neonatorum, dermatomyositis, certain cases of sarcoidosis, berylliosis, Behcet's syndrome, universal calcinosis, Reiter's disease and ulcers of sickle-cell anemia. One must always bear in mind the well-defined contraindications to corticosteroid therapy and the hazards of its use, particularly if therapy is to be prolonged. Results from topical hydrocortisone therapy are particularly pleasing in chronic eczematous otitis externa and especially when it is combined with an antibiotic drug. Results are excellent also in nuchal eczema, dermatitis of the eyelids and in pruritus ani. More often than not, hydrocortisone ointment and lotions benefit more than do other standard remedies such diseases as atopic eczema, contact dermatitis, lichen simplex-chronicus and eczematized phases of conditions such as psoriasis and superficial mycotic infections. Preparations containing a combination of hydrocortisone and an antibiotic are more useful than hydrocortisone alone. When used with discrimination, with full attention to the selection of cases and proper concentration in the correct vehicle, hydrocortisone preparations in combination with antibiotics are excellent antieczematous agents.
It is possible to safely lower the basal metabolism of patients suffering from severe cardiac disease by administering multiple small doses of radioiodine in order to achieve symptomatic relief. From the present study, multiple small doses of I(131) appeared to be as effective as single or multiple large doses of this material and complications such as thyroiditis, temporary thyrotoxicosis and bone marrow depression were almost always avoided. No damage to the parathyroid glands or the recurrent laryngeal nerve was observed. No radiation sickness developed after therapy.A scintigram of the thyroid gland was useful in determining the size, shape and function of the thyroid gland before and during radioiodine treatment and helped to determine the need for additional treatment. In order to prevent the distressing symptoms of the myxedema state, desiccated thyroid was administered when necessary. In the series of 278 euthyroid patients with severe cardiac disease who were treated with radioactive iodine, results were excellent in 35 per cent of cases and good in 44 per cent. In 21 per cent there was no improvement.
Epiphyseal stimulation to correct disparity in the length of lower extremities was done in 12 children. The total number of procedures was In 11 of the 15 instances the operation was beneficial. Ivory pegs were used in some cases, brass screws in others and multiple drill holes in still others. There seemed to be no difference between them in the amount of stimulation brought about. Stimulation persisted for from six to ten months after operation. Complications that may occur are varus or valgus deformities, delay in growth, complete fusion, or infection. To prevent varus or valgus deformity, both medial and lateral sides may be stimulated simultaneously. Great care must be taken to place the screws no closer than one-fourth inch to the epiphyseal plate to avoid trauma which may delay rather than stimulate growth. Late infection may be obviated by the use of absorbable materials. The increase brought about by stimulation procedures is probably attributable to hyperemia following subperiosteal stripping.
Three spontaneous pulmonary adenomas of C mice, morphologically resembling those induced by methylcholanthrene or urethane, were propagated in host after host under conditions such that the neoplastic cells were directly exposed, while proliferating, to one or the other of these agents. The successive periods of test lasted for more than a year in some instances, the total exposure to the carcinogens far exceeding that required to change normal pulmonary cells into adenoma cells. One of the adenomas remained unaltered, and the others underwent cancerous changes; but these took place with equal frequency in the control growths, and their occurrence was neither hastened nor delayed by the carcinogens. Two polymorphous mammary carcinomas of "milk-factor" type, with the characteristic tendency to form acini and tubules, were exposed to methylcholanthrene in the same way as the pulmonary adenomas and for periods quite as long. Their cells continued to differentiate, and in other respects underwent no significant change. Urethane had no influence on the rate of growth of the adenomas exposed to it; methylcholanthrene, on the other hand, markedly retarded the enlargement both of them and of the mammary tumors. Its inhibitory influence was not passed on from cell to cell however; when freed of the carcinogen by further transplantation, the retarded tumors grew as fast as the controls. Furthermore the retardation caused no evident delay in the occurrence of cancerous changes in the adenomas. One of the adenomas was maintained in twelve parallel lines while under test and new tumors arose in nine of them, the earliest appearing more than fifteen months after initial transfer of the growth. Always it was an adenoma solidum, this appearing almost concurrently in eight of the nine lines. In six of them it was soon followed by carcinomas, the sequence of events and the morphological findings both indicating that they had derived from it. Individually the cancers were widely various, but they were similar on the whole from line to line. Carcinomas of a wholly different aspect arose from the other adenoma undergoing cancerous change, and they were not preceded by adenoma solidum. In both instances the character of the superimposed neoplastic alterations seemed to have been determined by some inherent trait of the adenoma concerned.
Normal red blood cells in dogs contain stroma in fairly uniform amounts. This red cell stroma is rich in proteins and lipides. Anemia due to blood loss causes an increase in stroma protein. The highest levels of stroma protein are found in the severe anemias. As the anemia is corrected by red cell regeneration, the stroma protein level falls to normal. Anemia due to blood destruction (phenylhydrazine) presents very high levels of stroma protein-almost double the increase noted in anemia due to blood loss. Hypoproteinemia added to anemia due to blood loss causes no significant change on the stroma protein level. Abscesses due to the subcutaneous injection of turpentine during the anemia cause slight decreases in the stroma protein levels. Chloroform poisoning has no effect on the stroma protein levels. The total lipides of the stroma are rather stable and are little influenced by anemia. In certain experiments with hemolytic anemia and with hypoproteinemia, there is a significant rise in total lipide figures.
The mode of action of cortisone as an antipyretic has been studied in rabbits challenged with intravenous injections of bacterial pyrogens. The fever induced by pyromen or dextran was found to be markedly suppressed when cortisone was administered in liberal amounts (25 mg. twice daily) for 3 days prior to the challenge. Although the cortisone effectively blocked the febrile response to both pyrogens, it failed to influence the transient but marked leucopenia which characteristically precedes the onset of fever. The antipyretic action of the drug also was shown to bear no relation to the activity of the serum factor recently demonstrated by Farr, Grant, and others to be involved in the production of pyrogen-induced fever. In preliminary experiments with typhoid vaccine as the inciting pyrogen, the presence of serum factor activity in normal blood and its absence in the blood of pyrogen-tolerant rabbits was confirmed. Subsequently the blood of rabbits treated with antipyretically effective doses of cortisone was shown to contain just as much serum factor activity as that of normal rabbits. In addition, previous incubation of the pyrogen with serum factor failed to influence the antipyretic effect of the drug. It is concluded from these findings that in suppressing pyrogen fever, cortisone acts neither upon the leucopenic reaction nor upon the fever-accelerating factor of the serum. By exclusion it would appear that the drug must influence some later stage of the fever-producing process. The mechanisms involved in the later stages of the response to exogenous pyrogen remain undefined, and the need for determining whether they are related to the prefebrile leucopenia is emphasized.
The effects of viremia on the CNS of cynomolgus monkeys were studied by comprehensive histological examination following inoculations of approximately equal amounts of the same strain of poliomyelitis virus into the femoral vein, carotid artery, and vertebral artery, respectively, of four animals in each case. The intravenous injections failed to produce lesions in the CNS, indicating that an effective mechanism exists for the removal of virus from the blood stream. While not absolute, the degree of protection of the CNS afforded by this mechanism appears to be of major importance. Inoculations into the carotid artery failed to produce significant lesions in the CNS in two animals; only a few minor lesions in one; and bulbar paralysis in one. The neuronal areas supplied by the carotid artery are in general those of low susceptibility to poliomyelitis virus. Inoculations into the vertebral artery, which supplies neuronal areas of high susceptibility, produced in all four animals severe symmetrical and widely distributed lesions in the brainstem, chiefly the motor centers of the pons, medulla, and cord, and maximal in the cord. Involvement of all of the various affected areas appeared to be simultaneous. Viremic invasion of the CNS appears to occur at many points by direct passage of virus from capillary to neuron, and not at a single area of specialized vascular permeability. Comparison of the two routes of arterial inoculation indicates that: the localizations of CNS lesions from viremia depend largely upon the susceptibilities of exposed nerve cells in a given region; in areas of high neuron susceptibility the blood-neuron "barrier" does not present an obstacle of importance to the passage of virus. Invasion of the CNS from the blood results in a notable difference in the initial localization of lesions from that produced by invasion by way of the peripheral nerves, the latter tending to occur in isolated nuclear groups, usually in the lower brainstem, related to the regional supply.
The rate of clearance of intravenously injected typhoid vaccine was studied in unsensitized, sensitized, and pyrogen-tolerant rabbits by means of a passive transfer technique. The blood of unsensitized rabbits which had not been previously exposed to bacterial pyrogen remained pyrogenic for normal recipients throughout a period of 2 hours following the injection. In contrast, rabbits sensitized by having received either one or two injections of the vaccine at least 3 weeks prior to the experiment cleared their blood of the test vaccine within 30 minutes despite the fact that they exhibit the same febrile response as unsensitized rabbits. After 1 hour, however, a transferable pyrogenic substance was again demonstrable in the sera of this group. Reasons are discussed for believing that this newly appearing substance may be of endogenous origin and may be the factor which directly affects the thermoregulatory centers of the brain. Rabbits which are made tolerant by repeated daily injections of vaccine have a characteristically depressed febrile response. Not only were the blood streams of such animals cleared of the injected vaccine within less than 5 minutes, but samples of their sera obtained 1 and 2 hours after the injection also failed to contain demonstrable quantities of the secondary pyrogen observed in sensitized animals. The latter observation is in keeping with the suggestion that the secondary pyrogen may play a critical role in the production of fever.
Fifty cases in which reconstruction of the biliary system was carried out were reviewed. In 25 cases the operation was done during the treatment of malignant neoplasms. The other 25 patients were treated for benign conditions. Delayed stricture of the biliary anastomosis occurs more frequently following operation for benign post-traumatic obstruction than following reconstruction for other conditions. This is probably a result of: greater regional scarring, local infection, and technical imperfections in the reconstituted biliary anastomosis. Certain primary malignant tumors may be difficult to recognize by both gross and microscopic examination. In six cases of biliary obstruction resulting from malignant neoplasms in the present series, exploration had been carried out some time previously, and in four of them an erroneous diagnosis of benign biliary obstruction was made.End-to-end anastomosis of the duct above and below the point of obstruction is the method preferred in the treatment of benign biliary stricture. Intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary-enteric anastomoses have been used successfully in selected cases.
Current trends in the search for chemical compounds having an inhibitory action on the growth of malignant cells are reviewed in this article. Several agents are sufficiently promising that clinical trials with them are in progress. One of these, an aromatic nitrogen mustard (C.B. 1348), appears to be useful as an adjunctive therapeutic measure in patients with malignant lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and mycosis fungoides who have become refractory to other methods of treatment. The introduction of certain purine antagonists, of which 6-mercaptopurine has been given the most extensive clinical trial, has opened up a new field of experimental and clinical investigation. 6-mercaptopurine and related compounds appear to be particularly useful in the treatment of acute leukemia in adults, but they are also useful, together with the folic acid antagonists and the steroid hormones, in the management of acute leukemia in children. While at present chemotherapeutic agents currently under investigation rarely cause significant regression of inoperable primary or metastatic solid tumors, the possibility of eventual more effective control in many types of malignant disease is not as dismal as it was a decade ago.
Reverse anaphylactic shock was induced in rats by intravenous injection of serum containing complement-fixing antibodies, obtamed by immunization of rabbits with purified preparations of rat tail collagen. Normal rabbit serum or serum containing antibodies to collagen from tunica of carp swim bladder was without effect. The clinical and pathological findings resembled those described by previous workers studying direct and reverse anaphylactic reactions induced in the rat with other antigens. Thrombocytopenia, leukopenia with rebound leukocytosis, delayed blood coagulability, lowering of serum complement and the development of a refractory state to the antibody after the initial shock-all compatible with anaphylaxis-were demonstrated. The reacting substance was found to be in the gamma globulin fraction of the serum, and the antibody titer appeared to be correlated with the degree of shock and vascular injury. Collagen injury in rats dying from acute shock or in those injected with repeated sublethal doses was not demonstrated by the methods employed; techniques by which lesions of collagen might be induced are discussed. Absorption experiments indicated that anti-rat collagen rabbit serum is specifically directed to a substance, apparently collagen, in the rat; it is likely that the combination of the antibody and collagen induces anaphylactic shock. These studies, made in vivo, provide further evidence of antigenic and immunological differences between acid-soluble rat and fish collagens.
Intravascular precipitates, comprised at least in part of iron, formed regularly in rabbits given one or more injections of a saccharated iron oxide preparation intravenously, and these lodged in numerous capillaries throughout the body, particularly those of the lungs and kidneys. Large numbers of the brownish precipitates remained in the capillaries of the renal glomeruli during the first few days following injection of the iron, but most of them disappeared after 5 to 7 days, with only moderate amounts of brown pigment remaining in the endothelial cells of the renal glomeruli. Signs of acute injury of the glomerular tufts-namely) pyknosis of some of the endothelial cells, margination of leukocytes within the glomerular capillaries, and slight proliferation of the epithelial cells-also developed some 5 to 7 days following injection of the iron, along with marked proteinuria, which proved transitory if no further injections were given. When the iron preparation was given repeatedly over prolonged intervals, however, the proteinuria persisted and became extreme, and hypoproteinemia developed, often with hypercholesterolemia and transitory edema as well. Histological studies of the kidneys of rabbits manifesting the nephrotic syndrome, as just described, disclosed that virtually all the renal glomeruli were greatly altered, mainly owing to proliferation of the epithelial cells, together with some fibrosis and atrophy. Some of the rabbits having marked proteinuria and other functional changes eventually developed azotemia following repeated injections of the iron, and several of them lost weight and died; the renal glomeruli of these animals showed changes like those just described, but the alterations were more extensive. Considered together, the findings provide evidence that the intravascular precipitates first occluded the glomerular capillaries for a period of several days following injection of the iron and then largely disappeared from them just prior to the development of morphologic signs of glomerular injury and proteinuria. Hence the possibility was considered that the intracapillary precipitates might have produced acute injury to the walls of the glomerular capllaries through the agency of anoxia. But it is plain that the findings of the present study do not disclose the essential nature of the anatomical change responsible for the proteinuria, or the means whereby this was produced. The findings as a whole were briefly considered in relation to the pathogenesis of the nephrotic syndrome as it occurs naturally in human beings.
Diminutive kidney, hypoplasia or atrophic pyelonephritis, may be the cause of hypertension, lumbar or abdominal pain, obscure gastrointestinal symptoms or chronic urinary infection accompanied by chills and fever. A hypoplastic kidney is prone to infection and stone formation.Diagnosis includes meticulous x-ray examination and renal function studies employing the more accurate quantitative phenolsulfonphthalein test of each kidney. Nephrectomy is the treatment for unilateral disease causing symptoms; localized atrophic pyelonephritis is amenable to partial resection. Since urinary stasis invites infection, obstructing ureteral strictures should be dilated. Pyelectasis, secondary to ptosis, and ureteropelvic obstruction should be corrected by nephropexy or plastic repair. These conservative measures may prevent renal destruction.SIXTEEN PATIENTS WERE SUBJECTED TO NEPHRECTOMY: Six because of persistent pain and chronic infection and ten because of hypertension. The six with pain and chronic urinary infection were relieved. In six of the ten with hypertension, the disease recurred within six months to seven years.
Adrenal necrosis has been described in golden hamsters where it occurs during the course of infection with Besnoilia jellisoni. This necrosis results directly from the active intracellular proliferation by this obligate intracellular protozoan organism. After infection, adrenal necrosis is rarely observed in hypophysectomized hamsters. In unoperated animals adrenal necrosis is suppressed to varying degrees by cortisone (E), hydrocortisone (F), corticosterone (B), 11-dehydrocorticosterone (A), and possibly by 11-desoxycorticosterone (DOCA). Besnoitia organisms proliferate in otherwise "immune" hamsters around the subcutaneous deposits of the acetates of cortisone (E), hydrocortisone (F), and 11-dehydrocorticosterone (A); a marked depression of general immunity follows the administration of pharmacologic doses of the former two hormones. Organisms do not proliferate around the sites of corticosterone acetate and 11desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) injection, nor next to deposits of testosterone propionate, 11-desoxy-17-hydroxycorticosterone acetate (Reichstein's compound S) and epinephrine in oil. It is postulated that certain glucocorticoids can so modify immunity mechanisms locally, that general immunity becomes ineffective; this occurs in the adrenal glands owing to endogenous corticoid production, at the sites of exogenous corticoid injection, and proximal to that in the lungs. A comparison is made with the pathogenesis of tuberculosis and histoplasmosis of the adrenal gland which results in Addison's disease in man, and it is concluded that a similar pathogenetic mechanism is operative. The use of glucocorticoids for replacement therapy is discussed in reference to their relative resistance-depressing activities in pharmacologic doses. These undesirable side effects would appear to be less pronounced, if not absent, if corticosterone rather than cortisone and hydrocortisone therapy were used. Porcine adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) appearsto depress the incidence of adrenal necrosis in unoperated hamsters, and supports proliferation of organisms in the adrenal cortex with subsequent necrosis in only a small proportion of hypophysectomized hamsters. The possibility is discussed that ACTH from a different species (hog) might lead to a change in the secretory activity of the hamster adrenal gland.
A specific and characteristic type of anemia is not a feature of all malignant disease. To the contrary, the nature of the anemia will depend upon the causative mechanism, of which blood loss and accelerated erythrocyte removal appear to be the most frequently seen and the most clearly defined. Recognition of anemia due to loss of blood is relatively simple if the subtlety of blood loss in the stool is borne in mind and persistent testing to demonstrate it is carried out. Indeed, anemia characterized by chronic loss of blood in men can only mean chronic gastrointestinal bleeding if certain rare hemoglobin abnormalities can be ruled out. Anemia due to accelerated erythrocyte removal may also be recognized by simple measures. After transfusions raise hemoglobin values to near normal levels, the disappearance of the transfused blood and the rapid return of the pretransfusion severity of anemia are good evidence of the presence of such a mechanism, if blood loss can be ruled out.Adequate management of the anemia of malignant disease depends upon a clear understanding of the various mechanisms involved. It is highly probable that attention to this feature will, in many instances, significantly prolong the productive life of persons with malignant disease.
Each of the four agents, ovomucoid, dextran, 48/80, and testis extract, when injected beneath the skin of the dorsa of the paws of rats produces a local vascular injury characterized by a protein-rich edema. Each agent also produces damage to mast cells. Either 5-hydroxytryptamine or histamine produces a response similar in the gross to that elicited by the agents which damage mast cells; however, neither of these two agents produces mast cell damage. On a weight basis 5-hydroxytryptamine is a much more potent edema-producing agent than histamine. The edema-producing action of 5-hydroxytryptamine can be differentiated from the similar action of histamine by the use of specific antagonists; dibenamine is a 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonist and pyrilamine a histamine antagonist. The edema produced by the mast cell-damaging agents is partially inhibited by dibenamine but is not diminished by pyrilamine. It is completely inhibited by treatment of rats with both drugs. The drugs which inhibit edema do not prevent mast cell damage by ovomucoid, dextran, 48/80, or testis extract. The observations are consistent with the hypothesis that agents which damage mast cells, "release" both 5-hydroxytryptamine and histamine and that in the rat the edema associated with mast cell damage is mediated largely by 5-hydroxytryptamine.
The effect of alcohol ingestion upon the development of naturally occurring and stilbestrol-induced arteriosclerosis was studied in the domestic fowl. In two experiments, a 15 per cent ethyl alcohol solution was used for drinking purposes, and in a third experiment wine containing 12 per cent of it was administered. The caloric intake of both food and alcohol was carefully controlled by pair-feeding, a glucose solution being used for drinking purposes to equalize the caloric intakes of the control birds with those of the alcohol-treated birds. A total of 224 cockrels was studied, and the period of observation for each experiment lasted 12 months. The degree of arteriosclerosis in the thoracic and abdominal aortas was determined in the gross and microscopically, and the degree of lipide infiltration was determined microscopically. The gross grading of arteriosclerotic lesions agreed closely with the microscopic analysis of intimal thickening and lipide infiltration of the arterial wall. The gross gradings were subjected to a critical statistical analysis which allowed precise statements to be made on the probability that a real effect would be overlooked. This analysis yielded no evidence that alcohol or the wine used had affected the degree of gross arteriosclerosis or lipide infiltration.
The three types of motor axons found in the walking legs of the lobster were shown to respond differently upon exposure to calcium-free solutions. While all fiber types became more excitable initially in calcium-free solutions, only openers became spontaneously active. Fast closers showed the least reduction in rheobase value upon calcium depletion. After 5 minutes in calcium-free solution all fibers showed a rise in rheobase value, and more rapid accommodation. A natural period for spontaneous firing of opener fibers was disclosed. Following such a spontaneous discharge, low amplitude rhythmical potentials were recorded. These small potentials had the same period as the spontaneous spikes. The role of calcium ion in the excitable process was discussed. Magnesium ion was shown to act synergistically with calcium ion. All fiber types became spontaneously active in solutions deprived of both calcium and magnesium. Subsequent hypoexcitability was more pronounced in calcium- and magnesium-depleted solutions than it was in only calcium-depleted solutions.
Primary squamous cell carcinoma of the false vocal cord may arise on the surface mucosa or may arise beneath it and continue to grow deeply, presenting only a smooth tumescence of the area. These lesions may not cause hoarseness until late in the course of development. Diagnosis of submucosal primary lesions may present difficulty. Widefield laryngectomy is recommended for small primary lesions of the surface mucosa of the false vocal cord. Such lesions do not show edema of the tissues or deep ulceration and do not cause limitation of motion of the false or true vocal cords. For advanced lesions of the false vocal cord which arise on the surface mucosa and cause edema, ulceration and limitation of motion without enlargement of cervical nodes, widefield laryngectomy and elective block dissection of the neck should be done at the primary operation. Patients with such a primary lesion and metastasis to cervical lymph nodes, which are resectable, should be treated in a like manner.Patients with submucosal primary squamous cell carcinoma of the false vocal cord should be treated with widefield laryngectomy and block dissection of the neck, whether or not palpable resectable lymph nodes are noted in the neck. Apparently these lesions metastasize early and widely.
Various preparations of gamma-globulin homogeneous in the ultracentrifuge showed a similar content of hexose, hexosamine, fucose, and sialic acid. Subfractionation of Fr. II gamma-globulin by zone electrophoresis revealed multiple components of different mean mobilities but containing similar amounts of carbohydrate. Gamma globulin isolated directly from normal serum by zone electrophoresis showed a heavy component in addition to the usual 7 S material. The heavy component (s(20, w) = 19 S) concentrated by preparative ultracentrifugation was found to be considerably richer in carbohydrate than the rest of the gamma-globulin and accounted for small differences in carbohydrate content between different preparations of gamma-globulin. Pathological sera with marked elevation in gamma-globulin showed a carbohydrate-protein ratio for the gamma-globulin similar to that found for the corresponding 7 S fraction in normal serum. This was only partially true of the myeloma proteins with a mobility in the gamma-globulin region. Certain of these proteins showed slight but significant differences. The myeloma proteins of faster mobility (beta-myelomas) contained considerably more carbohydrate. The possible role of these carbohydrates in accounting for some of the mobility and immunological differences in the myeloma proteins is discussed. The pathological proteins found in two cases of macroglobulinemia showed a high carbohydrate content similar to but slightly lower than the normal 19 S component of gamma-globulin.
Simultaneous transfer of delayed hypersensitivity to diphtheria toxin and to tuberculin has been accomplished in eight consecutive instances in man using extracts from washed leucocytes taken from the peripheral blood of tuberculin-positive, Schick-negative donors who were highly sensitive (i.e., pseudoreactors) to purified diphtheria toxin and toxoid. The leucocyte extracts used for transfer contained no detectable antitoxin. The recipient subjects were Schick-positive (<0.001 unit antitoxin per ml. serum) and tuberculin-negative at the time of transfer. All the recipients remained Schick-positive for at least 2 weeks following transfer and in every case their serum contained less than 0.001 units antitoxin at the time when they exhibited maximal skin reactivity to toxoid. Evidence is presented which indicates that the transfer factor may be released from leucocyte suspensions under mild conditions in which most of the cells appear to remain morphologically intact. Four adult Schick-positive subjects have been sensitized to diphtheria toxoid by intradermal injection of a few micrograms of purified toxoid in the form of a washed toxoid-antitoxin precipitate. Two of these sensitized individuals showed severe delayed skin reactions specifically directed against diphtheria toxin (or toxoid) at a time when their serum antitoxin level was less than 0.001 units/ml.
Bilateral oophorectomy and adrenalectomy were used in the treatment of ten patients with advanced metastatic carcinoma of the breast, and particular attention was given to preoperative and postoperative management by a team of specialists including surgeons, endocrinologist, radiologist and pathologist. Objective and gratifying clinical remissions were achieved in three of the ten patients in this series following total oophorectomy and adrenalectomy. The remaining seven patients all subsequently died of metastatic disease. There were no operative deaths. Known cerebral or hepatic metastasis contraindicates adrenalectomy for metastatic cancer of the breast. Five of the seven patients not benefited by the operation had either cerebral or hepatic metastasis. The best candidates for adrenalectomy are premenopausal women who have previously had a clinical remission following oophorectomy and who have subsequently relapsed. The indications for adrenalectomy in the postmenopausal woman are not clear.
The preponderance of men over 60 years of age on the Urology Service at the Los Angeles County General Hospital is due to the prevalence of prostatic disease. Approximately two-thirds of patients with prostatic hypertrophy of Grade I or smaller size and who have less than 60 cc. of residual urine can be treated nonsurgically. Prostatic operation, when done expertly, is well tolerated by most aged patients. The end results are usually good except in those who have complicating central nervous system lesions. The approach chosen for removal of the prostate is determined by the training and experience of the surgeon.Urinary obstruction due to carcinoma of the prostate can be relieved by hormonal treatment in most cases. Carcinoma of the bladder when discovered early can be controlled for many years by repeated transurethral resection and frequent observation; when discovered late, successful definitive treatment is rarely possible. Vesical dysfunction due to neurological and/or senile changes is best treated by use of an in-dwelling urethral catheter. Mild dysfunction may respond somewhat to medication and sphincter muscle exercise. Infections respond well to anti-infection drugs unless there is an organic urological lesion. Untoward reactions to drugs are more common in aged patients. Calculi, when they are found in the bladder, should be crushed and evacuated; when in the kidney, let alone unless symptoms are annoying. Renal tumors should be removed unless the patient is more than 80 years of age. Elderly patients tolerate urological operation well when it is done expertly.
Studies have been carried out to determine the distribution of antigen capable of inducing the formation in rabbits of antibodies nephrotoxic for the rat. The results indicate that the antigen is present both in cortex and medulla of rat kidney. It can be extracted to a limited extent with saline. It is non-dialyzable and destroyed by boiling. The nephrotoxic serum antigen is also present in rat lung and placenta, in amounts roughly comparable to that in kidney, and in a number of other rat organs in smaller amounts. These various tissues not only are capable of stimulating the production of nephrotoxic antibodies, but each tissue is also able to absorb the nephrotoxic antibodies induced by injections of other rat tissues. These studies indicate that the nephrotoxic serum antigen in various rat tissues is the same or closely related. The nephrotoxic serum antigen of the rat is distinct from that of the dog and the rabbit, but there appears to be a cross-reaction between the nephrotoxic serum antigens of the rat and mouse. It is concluded that the nephrotoxic serum antigen is not a specific component of kidney; it is neither limited to kidney in its distribution within the rat, nor is the rat antigen present in kidney tissue of 2 other species examined. Rather, it is probable that the antigen is to a large extent specific for tissue of a given species. The preponderance of renal injury following injections of the anti-organ sera presumably is due to the occurrence in the kidney of large amounts of the antigen in positions of physiological importance in which it is exposed directly to the circulating antibodies.
Improved management of pericardial disease has resulted from a better understanding of the pathological physiology and refined surgical technique. In acute cardiac tamponade from trauma, our experience has shown that simple pericardial aspiration, because it relieves the tamponade, renders open operation unnecessary unless the hemorrhage is unusually severe. However, in chronic tamponade, from prolonged pericardial bleeding or effusion, the "pericardio-pleural window" operation described in this article will safely decompress the pericardium without secondary infection and the necessity of reoperation. With chronic constrictive pericarditis, on the other hand, catheterization studies reveal that left heart constriction is more important than that of the right heart or vena cavae. So it is important to pay more attention to decortication of the left heart than was formerly believed. Excision of pericardial tumors, most often cystic, is indicated because they are indistinguishable from malignant growths, although they in themselves are not of serious import. Fatty and fibrous pericardium have proved to be suitable viable material for various plastic operations on the heart, lung and esophagus. Finally, experience with poudrage to revascularize the myocardium is proving that this is a very satisfactory technique which can be performed with minimal risk.
A marked increase of the serum beta globulins was found in rabbits developing amyloidosis as a result of prolonged treatment with ribonucleate administered by subcutaneous injections. Following cessation of treatment the beta globulin levels gradually returned to normal while the gamma globulin levels rose strikingly, the changes being accompanied by a resorption of amyloid from the spleen, and probably also from the kidneys. Electrophoretic studies provided some evidence that the increase in beta globulins which accompanied the development of amyloidosis resulted from the production of a globulin not normally present in rabbit serum. A protein or protein derivative that moved as a beta globulin when subjected to filter paper electrophoresis was excreted in substantial quantities in the urine of several amyloidotic rabbits, along with much smaller quantities of substances moving as albumin, alpha and gamma globulins. Considered as a whole, the findings indicate a causal relationship between the abnormal production of circulating beta globulins and the deposition of amyloid in rabbits treated with ribonucleate. Hence it appears that a beta globulin may be directly involved in the formation of amyloid under the conditions of the experiments here reported.
Thromboendarterectomy appears to be the procedure of choice in the surgical treatment of localized obstructive arteriosclerosis in the aortoiliac area in a relatively young patient. Clinical follow-up over a three-year period demonstrated maintenance of a maximum benefit and suggested that the endarterectomized area will remain patent for the duration of the patient's life. In younger patients, it seems logical to reestablish vascular continuity with their own tissues by a careful endarterectomy rather than by homograft replacement because of the reported incidence of late thrombosis in the latter."Diffuse" arteriosclerosis definitely limits the potential benefit or effectiveness of thromboendarterectomy. However, lumbar sympathectomy may still bring about definite benefit in particular cases. The careful selection of patients with localized or segmental arteriosclerosis and well developed collateral circulation would seem to be the greatest factor in obtaining a maximum result by thromboendarterectomy.
The morphological appearances and some tinctorial properties of the cells of the infectious (viral) papilloma of human skin are described. Pathological alterations of the nuclei of affected cells occur in a definite sequence of stages. In the earliest, and acidophilic Feulgen-negative intranuclear inclusion body is recognizable. Subsequently the inclusion body and nucleus enlarge, there is progressive disorganization of nuclear structure, and the inclusion body then becomes basophilic and stains with the Feulgen reaction. The nucleus finally disappears, leaving the inclusion body in the cell remnant. The relative amounts of Feulgen-colored DNA per cell at each stage in the evolution of the lesion in the infected cells, as well as in normal appearing and hypertrophic cells of the papilloma, were measured microphotometrically in Feulgen preparations. Determinations were made using the "plug" and "two wave length" methods. These are compared with measurements of DNA in cells of the basal and spinous layers of normal human skin. The frequency distribution curves of relative amount of DNA in cells of normal skin, and normal-appearing cells in hyperplastic epithelium, show the bimodal diploid and tetraploid peaks characteristic of growing tissues. Infection of the epidermal cell entails prompt synthesis of DNA in the nucleus. Increased amounts of DNA (tetraploid to 16 ploid levels) are found in the earliest recognizable cytopathological stages of infection and do not increase appreciably during the subsequent evolution of the cellular lesion. At a relatively late stage, all the cellular DNA is relocated ("transferred" or "reassembled") in the inclusion body, and is not further significantly increased in amount. Active formation of DNA in affected cells appears, from these measurements, to occur only in relatively intact nuclei. The inclusion bodies of infected cells are found to contain a relatively basic protein which stains with the alkaline-fast green method for histone.
A method has been described for the study of the central effects produced by the intracerebral injection of drugs in the unanaesthetized mouse. The effects observed were in good agreement with those obtained after similar injections in cats, dogs and human beings. After intracerebral injection, drugs of diverse structure produced certain generalized effects: changes in positioning of the tail, stupor, hyperexcitability and tachypnoea. Both acetylcholine and methacholine produced an akinetic seizure and depression, but the latter compound also caused lacrimation and salivation. Atropine produced piloerection, increased sensitivity to sound and touch, clonic convulsions and scratching, whereas hexamethonium caused Parkinsonian-like muscle tremors and peripheral vasodilatation. After adrenaline, hyperexcitability, exophthalmos, stupor and death from pulmonary oedema were observed, but (+)-methylamphetamine produced only piloerection and exaggerated activity in response to sound and touch. Ergotamine caused a decreased sensitivity to sound and touch, micturition, and stupor, while ergometrine caused clonic convulsions, piloerection, defaecation and stupor.
Of various antimalarial compounds tested, only proguanil failed to inhibit yeast hexokinase. The metabolite of proguanil, 10,580, was an effective inhibitor. Some compounds tested which were without antimalarial activity were potent inhibitors of yeast hexokinase. The degree of inhibition increased as the time during which the enzyme had been in contact with the drug increased, and the inhibitory action of mepacrine was reduced when the concentration of ATP was raised. The inhibition of yeast hexokinase by 10,732 was independent of the concentration of ATP.The hexokinase of haemolysates of the reticulocytes of mouse or rat blood was not appreciably higher than that of similar haemolysates of normal erythrocytes. Preparations of mouse or rat erythrocytes parasitized with P. berghei possessed a much higher hexokinase activity.The inhibiting action of various compounds on the hexokinase of P. berghei closely resembled those with yeast hexokinase. Again all antimalarial compounds (apart from proguanil) inhibited the enzyme, but some of the most potent inhibitors were devoid of antimalarial action. Amongst the chemotherapeutically active compounds, there appeared to be an approximate parallelism between antimalarial activity and potency as inhibitors of plasmodial hexokinase. The action of mepacrine on plasmodial hexokinase was reduced by raising the concentration of ATP, but, as with yeast hexokinase, the inhibition by 10,732 was independent of the ATP concentration.From a consideration of the results, it seems doubtful whether this type of inhibitory effect plays more than a minor part in the mechanism of antimalarial action in vivo.
The process of carcinogenesis following exposure of mice to urethane is demonstrated in the present work to be intimately related to nucleic acid synthesis. Injection of animals with a DNA hydrolysate immediately prior to a single exposure of the animals to urethane markedly reduced the number of pulmonary adenomas initiated. Aminopterin, known to interfere in nucleic acid synthesis (46), potentiated the carcinogenic action of urethane and this potentiation was blocked by injection of a DNA hydrolysate. Of the components and precursors of nucleic acids the pyrimidine series seemed especially concerned. Alterations in the utilization of oxaloacetate, ureidosuccinic acid, dihydro-orotic acid, orotic acid, cytidylic acid, and thymine appeared to be critical steps in the oncogenic process, following upon the primary disorder of cellular metabolism initiated by the carcinogen. All these substances except oxaloacetate profoundly reduced the number of tumors initiated by urethane. Oxaloacetate potentiated the carcinogenic effect. When these results are viewed together and in relation to known facts concerning nucleic acid synthesis they provide evidence suggesting that the point of action of the carcinogen is in the pathway of nucleic acid synthesis below orotic acid and perhaps at the level of ureidosuccinic acid. The potentiating influence of adenine, 4-amino-5-imidazole carboxamide, and aminopterin, the lack of effect of uracil, and the inhibitory influence of thymine together suggest that DNA rather than RNA is the nucleic acid critical to the oncogenic response of mice to urethane.
The clinical manifestations of many of the blood disorders are wholly or partially dependent on immunoallergic reactions. A growing body of evidence permits the characterization of antigenantibody mechanisms in connection with hemolytic anemia, purpura and agranulocytosis, and more specifically for each of the blood cell elements and for the vessel wall. These reactions extend to maternal-fetal relationships producing well defined blood disorders manifest at birth or in the neonatal period.Once the effects of the hypersensitive state are set in motion during the course of a blood disorder, therapeutic measures to slow their progress are often futile. Because it is not always possible to identify the potentially allergic child in whom these circumstances will occur, it is extremely important to weigh the advantages of the use of a drug before it is administered especially when its side effects have not yet been thoroughly investigated. Important information has recently been obtained regarding the heightened susceptibility to infection in children with chronic anemia who have had splenectomy to reduce the frequency of transfusions. The hypersensitive responses in children with spleen removed may result in overwhelming and often fulminating infections necessitating rigid criteria in selecting patients of the pediatric age for this operation.
Diphtheritic neuritis was produced in rabbits and guinea pigs by injection of underneutralized toxin-antitoxin mixtures. The disease is a progressive, ataxic paresis related in severity to the dose of injected toxin-antitoxin. Cerebrospinal fluids of rabbits with this disease showed "albuminocytologic dissociation" similar to that found in the same disease in man. Histologically the disease is a progressive demyelination of the peripheral nervous system, un-accompanied by axis cylinder damage or inflammation. It involves the spinal roots and sensory ganglia in the rabbit, the peripheral nerves in the guinea pig. Diphtheritic neuritis can be distinguished from experimental allergic neuritis in the rabbit and guinea pig on both clinical and histological grounds. The rabbit disease is however an excellent model of diphtheritic neuritis in man. In the animals with diphtheritic neuritis, studied in the present work, there was vigorous production of circulating antitoxin and infrequently complement-fixing antibody to horse serum proteins. No antibody against rabbit spinal cord or sciatic nerve was demonstrated. Skin reactivity to both rabbit nerve suspension and diphtheria toxoid was present at 1 to 2 weeks following inoculation and reached a maximum well before the peak of antitoxin response. These reactions did not seem to be typical delayed reactions. No correlation existed between the development of diphtheritic polyneuritis and any of these immunologic events or the circulating complement level, either in time or in degree. Treatment of rabbits with 400 r whole body irradiation 48 hours before inoculation resulted in severe leukopenia lasting about 3 weeks, delay of antitoxin formation with considerable reduction of peak titers, and some decreased skin reactivity to toxoid. It had no effect on the disease process. It is concluded that diphtheritic polyneuritis is produced by a non-immunologic mechanism, e.g., direct toxicity.
A survey of inbred strains of mice was made to determine whether the phenomenon of dermal hemorrhagic necrosis, as described in rabbits by Shwartzman, could be elicited in mice by bacterial polysaccharide preparations of demonstrated activity in rabbits. The polysaccharide preparations used were obtained from cultures of S. marcescens, S. typhosa, Ps. aeruginosa, and H. pertussis. Ten of the strains tested were unreactive. Three strains of mice and one F(1) hybrid subline developed a hemorrhagic lesion at the site of injection of a single, relatively high intradermal dose of polysaccharide. Some increase in incidence of hemorrhagic lesions was obtained when the intradermal dose was followed in 24 hours by an intravenous injection. In the gross and microscopically, the skin lesion produced in mice resembled the Shwartzman reaction in rabbits. An adrenergic blocking agent, SY-28, and an anticoagulant drug, coumadin, both of which block the dermal Shwartzman reaction in rabbits, also blocked the hemorrhagic skin reaction in mice.
A new series of mono- and di-hydroxy substituted naphthalene compounds was synthesized and found to possess antimalarial activity against P. gallinaceum infection of young chicks. A representative compound with a high degree of activity was chosen for extensive testing against other malarial species and for pharmacological investigation. The formula of this compound, number 377C54, was 1:6-dihydroxy-2:5-bis(cyclohexylaminomethyl)naphthalene dihydrochloride. Effective doses against P. gallinaceum in chicks, P. berghei in mice and P. cathemerium in canaries were 2.3, 4.0, and about 6 mg./kg. respectively. Compound 377C54 acted rapidly against the parasitaemia of P. gallinaceum in chicks and P. knowlesi in a rhesus monkey. Parasiticidal activity remained in the blood of chicks for a long time after a single oral dose. The drug can be estimated by the production of colour on coupling with diazotized p-nitroaniline. Drug concentrations in blood from chicks and humans rose rapidly after oral administration. In tissues from chicks, particularly liver and lung, the drug persisted for a long period. An unsuccessful attempt was made to induce resistance to 377C54 in a strain of P. gallinaceum. Extensive pharmacological investigation showed that 377C54 possessed no special pharmacological properties.
Sulphadimidine, dapsone, and pyrimethamine have been tested alone and in various combinations for their therapeutic effect against toxoplasma infection in mice. In the treatment of active infection, sulphadimidine by itself was effective, but relapses were common. Pyrimethamine gave complete cures and prevented the carrier state when used in doses near to the toxic level. Dapsone alone was not as good as either of the other two drugs tested. The best combination was found to be sulphadimidine and pyrimethamine, which were synergic. In doses well below the toxic level, this combination not only controlled the acute infection but also prevented relapses and the development of the carrier state. Dapsone and pyrimethamine were also synergic, but were not as effective as the previous combination. No synergy was found between dapsone and sulphadimidine. The mechanism of relapse and the development of the carrier state and the modes of action of the drugs alone and in combination are discussed.
Intravenous administration of bacterial endotoxins in dogs is followed within 2 hours by the appearance of a fever-producing substance in the blood. This endogenous pyrogen differs from the endotoxins originally administered by its ability to produce fever in tolerant recipients and failure to promote tolerance after repeated daily injections. Endogenous serum pyrogen is destroyed by heating at 90 degrees C. for 30 minutes, and is also inactivated to some degree by incubation at 37 degrees C. for 24 hours. Suppression of fever by aminopyrine does not affect appearance of the endogenous factor. Animals made febrile with dinitrophenol, kaolin, or lysergic acid do not elaborate a fever-promoting substance in the blood. Sterile abscesses, accompanied by elevations in body temperature of the host, are unassociated with detectable amounts of secondary pyrogen in the serum. The absence of endogenous pyrogen in the blood of febrile dogs made leukopenic with nitrogen mustard favors the idea that polymorphonuclear leukocytes injured by endotoxins release the endogenous factor. On the other hand, the finding that the granulocytopenic animals are febrile when no circulating endogenous pyrogen is present, casts doubt upon the essential role of this substance in endotoxin fever.
Negligible antidiuretic activity (less than 0.17 mU./g.) was found in extracts of the kidneys either of unanaesthetized adult rats in normal water balance or of rats in whose blood a rise of the level of endogenous antidiuretic hormone had been induced by ether anaesthesia. Extracts of the livers of unanaesthetized rats had negligible antidiuretic activity (less than 0.06 mU./g.), but liver extracts from rats anaesthetized with ether showed antidiuretic effects equivalent to 0.74+/-0.24 mU. Pitressin/g. liver. When Pitressin was injected intravenously into unanaesthetized rats, small amounts of antidiuretic activity were occasionally found in the livers and the kidneys of animals killed up to 3 min. after the injection but none in animals killed later. Some 3% of the antidiuretic activity of an injected dose of Pitressin was found in the urine and the "dead space" of the kidneys in rats decapitated 3 min. after the intravenous injection. When Pitressin was added to rat kidney homogenate and the mixture was incubated at 38 degrees , only 0.75% of the initial antidiuretic activity was recovered after 30 min. and less than 0.40% after 60 min. Experiments with "glomerular" and "tubular" fractions of rat kidney indicated that the inactivation was essentially due to tubular tissue. It is suggested that, in the rat, the kidneys and perhaps the liver are not only sites of clearance of the antidiuretic hormone but also sites of irreversible inactivation.
Upon preoperative diagnosis of acute small bowel obstruction, without an obvious cause, acute perforative appendicitis must be considered. Reevaluation of the history and careful reexamination of the physical findings with that diagnosis in mind should be carried out. If appendiceal disease is likely, maximum antibiotic therapy must be begun immediately along with the administration of fluids, electrolytes and other corrective therapy. A mercury-weighted small bowel tube should be inserted and every effort made to advance it into the small bowel before operation. Operative treatment should be restricted to the least possible. A McBurney incision is best unless wider operation is indicated. If an abscess is present, drainage alone may be the procedure of choice. Severely distended and decompensated small bowel must be decompressed, for if not relieved it can be the cause of death in acute perforative appendicitis. Decompression may be accomplished either by small bowel intubation with continuous suction or by enterotomy and aspiration. If not relieved, small bowel distention will be the mechanism responsible for death in a large percentage of patients with acute perforative appendicitis.
Renal tubular lesions during the early phases of progressive potassium depletion in rats were found in nephrons isolated by microdissection in two locations, the collecting tubules and the proximal convolutions. All other portions of the nephron, in particular the "distal tubule," i.e. ascending limbs of Henle's loop and distal convolutions, showed no structural alterations except the passive effects of dilatation and cellular compression which developed as a result of primary disturbances lower in the tubular system. The alterations affected all the collecting tubules uniformly and took two forms; the more severe, a swelling and hyperplasia of the tubular epithelium and the lesser, an intracellular accumulation of granule droplets. The former was limited to the outer zone of the medulla, the latter to its inner zone. In the proximal convolution the structural alteration began in its middle third and extended downward towards the medulla; only occasional nephrons were affected. The essential nature of the more severe epithelial lesion was similar in both collecting tubule and proximal convolution, beginning as a swelling of cell bodies, increasing to protoplasmic disturbances with disintegration of the mitochondrial pattern, followed by rupture of cells and nuclear disappearance. These retrogressive alterations were followed by prolific regenerative hyperplasia. In the collecting tubules of the outer zone these epithelial alterations were present in both the clear and the intercalcated cells; in the latter the swelling of the cells was not prominent, but the hyperplastic proliferative increase in their number was the predominating feature of the lesion when the dissected tubules were viewed intact in the continuity of their topographical relations. The cellular alterations in the tubules are associated with an inability to concentrate the urine; reasons are given for considering this functional disturbance a correlate of the structural lesion in the collecting tubules.
The sera of 8 patients with acquired hemolytic anemia associated with elevated levels of cold agglutinins were studied by various procedures of zone electrophoresis. The agglutinating activity was found associated with proteins of variable mobility in the different cases. The majority represented "fast" gamma-globulins. The 4 sera with the highest titers of cold agglutinins showed distinguishable abnormal electrophoretic components. The titers correlated with the height of the abnormal components. Ultracentrifugal analysis of the electrophoretic fractions indicated that the cold agglutinins were associated with proteins having a sedimentation coefficient of approximately 19 S. The abnormal component from the serum with the highest biological activity showed almost no contamination with lower molecular weight proteins. The amount of 19 S material found correlated with the titer of agglutinating activity. The high molecular weight character of the cold agglutinins was confirmed by procedures of density gradient zone centrifugation. The biological activity sedimented with proteins of the 19 S class in all the sera including those of relatively low titer with which no abnormal electrophoretic components were observed. Dissociation of the abnormal high molecular weight components was possible by means of certain sulfhydryl compounds. This resulted in disappearance of cold agglutinin activity. Some of the cases could be classified as macroglobulinemias because of the very large content of high molecular weight components. However, the same disease picture occurred without recognizable elevation of these components. The sera of 3 patients with severe acquired hemolytic anemia of the warm type associated with warm incomplete antibodies failed to show similar abnormal electrophoretic components and the antibody activity sedimented with proteins of the 7 S class.
The "endogenous serum pyrogen" that appears in the circulating blood after a single intravenous injection of endotoxin does not produce leukopenia in normal animals, fails to provoke the local Shwartzman reaction, and elicits no "tolerance" when injected daily. Suppression of the febrile response to endotoxin by prednisone does not prevent the appearance of pyrogen in the blood. Animals given large amounts of endotoxin daily continue to respond with high fevers despite failure of endogenous serum pyrogen to appear in detectable amounts after the first two or three injections. Analysis of the response to daily injections shows clearly that the fever during the first 2 hours after administration of endotoxin is unrelated to levels of endogenous serum pyrogen; in contrast, the magnitude of the fever after the 2nd hour correlates well with endogenous pyrogen in some instances. The leukopenic response to endotoxin could not be correlated with the appearance of endogenous serum pyrogen. The differences between endotoxin and endogenous pyrogen and the similarities between leukocyte extracts (sterile exudates) and endogenous pyrogen are summarized and discussed. Dissociation of the febrile response to bacterial endotoxin and levels of endogenous serum pyrogen are discussed and it is concluded that a mechanism involving both direct and indirect action of endotoxins offers the best explanation for the pyrogenic action of these bacterial products.
Careful and complete history and physical examination are essential in the diagnosis of diseases characterized by hemorrhage and are more reliable than laboratory tests for the prediction of the tendency to bleed at the time of surgical operation. Specific questions should be asked about bleeding from various anatomical sites, allergic manifestations, diet, and exposure to poisons and chemical substances. Because hemorrhagic diseases may be hereditary, it is necessary to obtain a family history. If there is a personal or family history of abnormal bleeding, the examiner should obtain exact details about the events immediately preceding the bleeding episodes, the character and duration of the hemorrhage and the response to therapy. The history is particularly important in the case of patients who are to have operation. Failure to obtain a history of past bleeding episodes may be catastrophic. In patients with bleeding tendencies who require operation, the history is valuable in predicting the severity of the bleeding. Physical examination including examination of retina, breast and pelvic organs will often detect evidence of lesions that are helpful in the diagnosis of the primary diseases of which the hemorrhage is a manifestation. The location, distribution, character and number of hemorrhagic lesions are of value in diagnosis and in prognosis.
In two patients with sarcoidosis treated with cortisone, localized vascular lesions, proven by biopsy, subsequently developed. Vascular lesions occurring in sarcoidosis, basically a granulomatous disease, are rarely described. However, a clinical picture of combined arteritis-sarcoidosis with overlapping features is not infrequently observed. Hence clinical differentiation may be difficult. Some observers suggest an interrelationship, perhaps a common etiological grouping in the hypersensitivity disease classification, because of the basic pathological lesions of granuloma and arteritis. The possible relationship of steroid therapy to the development of diffuse vascular lesions or arteritis appears to be gaining recognition, particularly in the case of susceptible patients with rheumatoid arthritis, although in the two cases here reported the disease for which steroids were administered was sarcoidosis and the arterial lesions observed subsequent to therapy were localized rather than diffuse. Since it seems unlikely that arteritis would be part of the clinical manifestations of sarcoidosis, it is implied that a higher incidence of such lesions (localized or diffuse) may be related to prolonged steroid therapy.
This article reports experiments with guinea-pigs on methods of producing wounds and infecting them with street virus, and on the use of nitric acid, detergent solution and antirabies serum in the local treatment of these wounds for the prevention of rabies. Despite certain limitations in the experimental arrangement, the authors consider that these findings are valuable in verifying some of the similar experiments performed by other workers.The addition of hyaluronidase to the virus challenge suspension did not increase the infectivity of the suspension when applied to wounds, but there was a trend towards increased pathogenicity of the hyaluronidase-virus mixture over virus suspension alone when inoculated intramuscularly.In the local treatment of wounds the protective action which resulted when nitric acid was applied within 4 hours, but not after a 24-hour interval, after infection, confirmed the results of other workers.Antirabies serum also proved effective both when infiltrated under the wound and when inoculated systemically up to 24 hours after infection, this being the longest interval tested. The results suggested that the serum exerted a specific local action.While some protective action was apparently achieved with the detergent Terjolate when applied by gentle swabbing, or by infiltration of saline solution under the wound, up to 3 hours after infection, this protection was distinctly inferior to that obtained with nitric acid or serum. The authors point out the excellent results reported by other workers with a different detergent, Zephiran chloride, and recommend further studies on this and other similar substances less corrosive than nitric acid.These experiments, considered together with those reported by other workers, indicate the value of simple washing, flushing or irrigation of wounds as a means of reducing virus levels below the infective dose.The authors cite the need for further research on local treatment of wounds in order to clarify mechanisms of action of various procedures and agents now used, and to improve the methods for handling the worrisome situation presented by a bite wound from an animal suspected of having rabies.
Guinea pigs were injected in the footpads with either purified diphtheria toxoid or recrystallized egg albumin in Freund adjuvant without mycobacteria. Each guinea pig was then skin-tested only once with the specific antigen and bled for antibody determination. After injection of the sensitizing antigen, a latent period occurred during which neither sensitivity nor circulating antibody could be detected. A period of delayed sensitivity followed wherein circulating antibody could not be discerned and which could be transferred by lymph node cells. Ultimately, the Arthus type sensitivity developed, accompanied by circulating antibody. The duration and severity of reactions to homologous antigens during the last 2 phases varied with the antigen and with the dose. An increase in the sensitizing dose decreased the duration of the delayed type of allergy, a decrease in the dose prolonged the delayed type. Inclusion of mycobacterium in the sensitizing inoculum tended to introduce delayed sensitivity earlier and delay the onset of Arthus type sensitivity. When specific precipitate in antibody excess was included with the toxoid in the sensitizing dose, the onset of the Arthus phase was hastened. When lymph nodes from a large number of sensitized donors were removed during the latter part of the latent period, recipients of the cells showed a delayed type sensitivity.
In order to study the effects of a severe bacterial infection on thyroid function rats were subjected to group A streptococcal pneumonia, and thyroid activity determined by measurement of the rate of discharge of I(131) from the thyroid gland. Decreased thyroid activity of moderate to marked degree was observed in the majority of infected animals. Infected animals ate less than normal animals. Since fasting leads to decreased thyroid function, I(131) release rates were measured in control animals pair-fed with infected animals and in control and infected animals force-fed a normal intake. The reduction in thyroid activity seen in acute infection was found to be partly but not entirely due to the associated voluntary food restriction. Although the adrenal glands of rats dying of pneumonia were very large, the thyroid inhibition occurring during the course of experimental pneumonia was not secondary to increased adrenocortical function since infected, adrenalectomized animals, receiving injections of cortisone, showed thyroid inhibition comparable to that observed in intact infected animals. The possible influence of the level of thyroid activity on resistance was evaluated. In two experiments a total of 80 rats in 3 groups was pretreated with propylthiouracil and injected daily with 3 dosage levels of 7-thyroxine for 3 weeks prior to inoculation. Under these conditions mortality rates in infected animals fell with decreasing levels of thyroid function. However, induced hypothyroidism was found to afford no protective effect in comparison with untreated infected animals.
A method has been described for the detection of streptococcal antigens in tissues using the indirect immunofluorescent technique. This method has been applied to the histologic distribution in the mouse of M protein of types 1, 5, 12, and Histologic localization of these M proteins was similar, and their rates of disappearance from the tissues were comparable. The major sites of deposition were the endocardium and adjacent subendocardium of the heart, alveolar walls of the lung, glomerular tufts of the kidney, and reticulo-endothelial cells of liver, spleen, lymph nodes, and adrenal gland. M protein was distributed in considerably lesser concentration in capillary endothelium and connective tissue sites in myocardium, kidney, skin, and gastrointestinal tract. Traces were also present in adrenal cortical cells. It was observed only rarely in cell nuclei. After injection of 0.5 mg. M protein fraction, the concentration of antigen diminished to undetectable levels in all organ sites by 4 days, except in the renal glomerulus, where traces were visible at 8 days. In mice injected with streptococcal culture intraperitoneally, M protein was detected at sites of focal abscesses in liver and spleen, and on the serous surfaces of these organs. The histologic distribution of M protein is compared with that described previously for pneumococcal polysaccharide and animal protein. Differences in the extent of distribution and in the characteristics of antigen deposition are pointed out.
Administration of small amounts of salmonella endotoxin (20 microg.) or of acetone-extracted BCG cells (100 microg.) increases the resistance of mice to infection with Myco. fortuitum as well as their ability to clear carbon particles from their blood stream. Whereas the increased resistance to infection persists for many weeks, the clearing power returns to a normal level within a few days. When normal mice are infected with Myco. fortuitum, there occurs during the first phase of the infectious process a rise in clearing power for carbon particles followed by a fall during the terminal phase of the disease. The rise occurs more rapidly and is more pronounced in animals previously treated with salmonella endotoxin or with killed BCG cells. This acceleration and intensification of the phagocytic response to infection can be detected even in animals which exhibit a normal phagocytic index when tested several weeks after administration of endotoxin or of BCG. Although increase in resistance to infection is correlated with activation of the so called reticulo-endothelial system, there is no evidence of any direct causal relationship between the two phenomena.
The course of a local, closed monilial lesion in the thigh of the mouse is described. Treatment of animals suffering from this lesion with subcutaneous chlortetracycline in near-toxic doses leads to a persistent suppression of the lesion indistinguishable from a curative effect. Treatment with subcutaneous cortisone produces suppression of the lesion during treatment with subsequent "rebound".Super-injection of the lesions with chlortetracycline produces a very large and persistent swelling. Treatment of these lesions with subcutaneous chlortetracycline in near-toxic doses produces suppression and "rebound" resembling that seen in lesions super-injected and treated with cortisone. Aspirin, chosen for its insolubility and acidity, and turpentine, chosen for its irritant effect, did not reproduce the effects of chlortetracycline or cortisone.While it is possible that the suppressive effect of chlortetracycline and cortisone is in certain circumstances related, the local irritant effect of chlortetracycline plays an important part in the enhancement of these lesions.
A steric and kinetic model for the sequence and mechanism of reactions leading to formation of a complex from an antibody, a haptene (quinidine), and a cell membrane (platelets), and to fixation of complement by the complex was deduced from the effects of varying the initial concentration of each component of the complex on the amount of complement fixed, from kinetic aspects of the sequential reactions, and from other chemical and physical properties of the various components involved. Theoretical results calculated using equations based on the model, which were derived by Dr. Terrell L. Hill, were similar in all respects to experimental results. Results of this study were consistent with the possibilities that the protein moiety of a haptenic antigen involved in development of an antibody which attaches to a cell is not necessarily a component of the cell, and that the cell reacts with the antibody by virtue of having a surface favorable for non-specific adsorption of certain haptene-antibody complexes.
The exaggeration of "hyaline droplet" formation observed in the renal lesion of epidemic hemorrhagic fever when treated with the infusion of large amounts of human serum albumin and the histochemical characteristics of the droplets so formed afford evidence towards their identification with the protein absorption droplets of experimental procedures and with those that occur in other renal diseases. Protein absorption droplets (hyaline droplets) are the visible aspect of pathological modifications of a physiological process; i.e., the continuing reabsorption of plasma proteins by the proximal convolutions. The mitochondria of the renal cells are directly involved in both the physiological and the abnormal reabsorption and disposal of the plasma proteins; the absorption droplets are a complex of reabsorbed proteins and mitochondrial substances and enzymes; they result whenever disposal is at a rate insufficient to prevent accumulation. Failure of intracellular disposal of reabsorbed protein is determined by the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the protein and by the functional state of renal cell. Various factors in renal disease that result in disturbances of reabsorption and of intracellular disposal, both with and without droplet formation, are described.
Four new derivatives of hydrocortisone, each containing in common a methyl grouping at the 16a-carbon position of the steroid molecule, have been synthesized and are being studied in human subjects. The compounds are 16a-methyl 9a-fluoroprednisolone (MK-125: hexadecadrol), 16a-methyl 9a-fluorohydrocortisone (MK-126), 16a-methylprednisolone (MK-110), and 16a-methylhydrocortisone (MK-117). Biologic tests in animals have indicated that these analogues exhibit, in varying degrees, striking alterations of several physiologic properties, including enhanced anti-inflammatory activity unassociated with corresponding disturbance of electrolyte metabolism. In the present study preliminary observations of the effects of the four new compounds were made in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Clinical estimates of the antirheumatic potencies of the compounds, as compared with prednisolone, were accomplished by determining the milligram dosages required to maintain similar degrees of improvement of active rheumatoid manifestations. The approximate antirheumatic potencies of the compounds, on an average, were gauged as follows: for 16a-methyl 9a-fluoroprednisolone, about seven times greater than prednisolone; for 16a-methyl 9a-fluorohydrocortisone, about three times greater; for 16a-methylprednisolone, approximately one-third greater; and for 16a-methylhydrocortisone, about 70 per cent that of prednisolone. In the dosage used, none of the compounds promoted discernible salt and water retention. These observations would indicate that 16a-methyl 9a-fluoroprednisolone (hexadecadrol) possesses greater anti-inflammatory potency per milligram than any steroid yet produced. The therapeutic efficiency of the compound on longterm administration is being studied.
The virus of rabbit papillomatosis, a neoplastic disease studied intensively in relation to cancer because of its tendency toward malignant transformation, has been successfully transmitted by Aedes aegypti, Rhodnius prolixus, and Triatoma infestans from papillomas induced in cottontail rabbits, and by the first species mentioned, from papillomas induced in domestic rabbits. This was accomplished by interrupted feeding, feeding after an interval of several days from the infective meal, or by application of a suspension of the mouthparts of the insects either immediately after their infective meal or several days later. Insect transmission was also successful from the satellite growths resulting from subcutaneous extensions of the typical papillomas of infected cottontails, and from certain peculiar, subcutaneous nodules, arising rapidly after infection, and not heretofore described. Although the latter growths resembled rabbit fibromas, antibodies to fibroma virus could not be demonstrated by neutralization tests with the sera of the animals involved.
The neurological manifestations associated with acquired liver disorders of various types may present difficult diagnostic problems until the condition is far advanced. Bizarre psychological and motor disorders occur when the central nervous system is affected by liver disease. The clinical features may in some ways resemble those of Wilson's disease, but such features as remitting coma, fetor hepaticus and seizures in "cholemia," and a Kaiser-Fleischer ring in hepatolenticular degeneration help to distinguish the two conditions. The biochemical abnormalities found in all types of hepatocerebral dysfunction may be quite similar one to another. While many studies suggest that the whole problem is simply the result of brain intoxication by a substance such as ammonia, other lines of evidence indict several factors in intermediate cerebral and liver metabolism. The treatment involves use of substances which may relieve certain blocks in biochemical processes, supplementary vitamins, low protein intake and strict avoidance of all neuro- and hepatotoxins.
The optimum ages for the operative repair of the various congenital defects have not as yet been definitely established. With certain exceptions, it has generally been the authors' preference to delay elective operations until after the age of 18 months. In the usual case, the optimum age for the closure of septal defects is believed to be three to five years. Operative relief of stenosis of the aortic or pulmonic valves, however, is related entirely to the extent of the obstruction, age not being a factor. Although the surgical treatment of coarctation of the aorta is probably best delayed beyond the period of infancy, it is the authors' belief that in the presence of extreme hypertension, cardiomegaly or cardiac failure, early resection of the aortic block should be accomplished. As to the treatment of tetralogy of Fallot, the authors' policy is to delay operation until such time as definitive repair becomes less hazardous. Patients with severe symptoms, however, are given the benefit of some form of operative relief as soon as possible. Whether this is palliative or corrective depends upon the characteristics of the individual case. Definitive diagnostic studies are of great aid in assessing the urgency of operative intervention. The fact that approximately one-third of the patients dealt with required operation at less than 18 months of age suggests that, in selected cases, these studies should be performed early in infancy.
Twenty-nine patients with systemic lupus erythematosus were treated with a new synthetic unsaturated prednisolone derivative, triamcinolone, for as long as 11 months. This hormone is 1.3 times as powerful as prednisone and 4.4 times more potent than hydrocortisone as an anti-inflammatory agent. The average dose for beginning therapy in cases of mild systemic lupus erythematosus was 20.6 mg. a day. The average maintenance dose used to control mild exacerbations of the disease was 26.0 mg. a day. There was no evidence of sodium retention or potassium loss. Sixteen patients had upper gastrointestinal x-ray studies before and during therapy with triamcinolone. There was no evidence of peptic ulceration except in one patient who was receiving 96 mg. a day. Nine patients had gastric analysis with histamine before and during therapy. No significant changes were noted in results of these tests, even in the patient who had an ulcer. No abnormal increase in uropepsin was noted in cases in which this factor was tested. The pattern of clinical improvement closely paralleled that obtained by previous treatment with older steroids. There was a disappearance of all the clinical and laboratory abnormalities produced by the disease, with the exception of long standing renal involvement. A major difference between triamcinolone and other steroids was a tendency to progressive gradual loss of weight, partly owing to fluid loss. Cushingoid appearance produced by other steroid therapy did not disappear. The cutaneous side effects, particularly Cushingoid appearance, hirsutism and striae were more pronounced than with older steroids. The most serious side effect was muscle weakness which appeared in six patients, all women, in from four to thirty-two weeks after starting triamcinolone. The profound muscle weakness, most pronounced in the quadriceps group, gradually cleared after several weeks of therapy with another steroid. Fourteen patients had received prior steroid therapy with all the older anti-inflammatory hormones and seven of them were better controlled and felt better with triamcinolone.
A series of experiments are reported which illustrate and characterize an altered state of reactivity of the skin of the hypersensitive rabbit to epinephrine (and norepinephrine). The requirements for the production of the lesion are: a state of hypersensitivity, circulating antigen and antibody and focal deposition of epinephrine or norepinephrine. The size and intensity of the reaction appear to be directly related to the amount of epinephrine injected (within certain limits) and to the degree of hypersensitivity as measured by the Arthus reaction. Although circulating antigen is required, the precise quantity does not seem to be as critical as does the amount of circulating antibody; a certain minimum amount is necessary, however. Experimental evidence is given which indicates the utilization of antigen in the production of the lesion. Data tending to identify this lesion with the Arthus reaction are given. The possibility of an analogous relationship between the mechanism of this experimental lesion and the necrotizing arteritis of the collagen diseases is postulated.
The limits of sensitivity of three gel diffusion methods are compared and their utilization in the detection of small amounts of antibody to antigens present in traces in a preparation is illustrated with the diphtheria toxin-human antitoxin system. The Preer modification of the Oakley-Fulthorpe technique and the Oudin tube method were found more sensitive than the Ouchteriony plate method, and permitted the detection of as little as 3 microg. antibody N/ml. of serum. Antisera from eight Schick-negative individuals immunized with purified diphtheria toxoid have all been shown to contain, in addition to antitoxin, antibodies to substances present as impurities in the purified toxoid injected. The amounts of these antibodies in a serum and a partial characterization of their antigen-antibody curves have been determined through the combined use of quantitative precipitin and gel diffusion methods. Different amounts of antibody have been precipitated by toxin and toxoid from individual sera. Evidence is presented that this may have been due to slight differences in antigenic specificity. A serum, Hu, which had been held to contain no precipitating antibody, has now been shown, by the Preer and Oudin techniques, to contain at least 12 microg. of precipitating antibody N (per ml. serum) against an impurity in the toxoid preparation. This estimate has been confirmed by quantitative precipitin determinations. The presence of antibodies to impurities in all human antitoxins examined in the present work brings into question the assumption that human antitoxin as such has a skin-sensitizing capacity.
An extensive review of the literature on protein malnutrition, with special reference to the frequency of involvement of the eyes, has been made by the author. Consideration of accounts from all parts of the world and in many different languages, including early as well as more recent descriptions of the syndrome, indicates that this important complication has not received sufficient attention hitherto. The evidence available suggests that it is nearly always an accompanying deficiency of vitamin A that is responsible. Less commonly reported-and producing less severe effects-is deficiency of the B-complex vitamins, and there is no clear evidence to date that protein deficiency itself damages the eyes in these cases.The ways in which protein lack might interfere with various aspects of vitamin-A metabolism are discussed, but it is pointed out that their actual significance in human disease is not yet known. A low dietary intake of vitamin A is regarded by the author as being the prime factor in the causation of eye complications, and attention is drawn to the necessity to correct this as part of any prophylactic or therapeutic programme aimed primarily at combating protein malnutrition.
To appraise the efficiency of complemental antacid administration in preventing and reducing digestive disturbances during prolonged treatment with prednisone and prednisolone, 100 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who were maintained on combined antacid and prednisone or prednisolone therapy for periods of one year or longer, were studied clinically and roentgenographically. Antacid therapy consisted of 300 mg. of dried aluminum hydroxide gel and 50 mg. of magnesium trisilicate taken with each 2.5 mg. dose of the steroids. Digestive symptoms, such as indigestion, heartburn, sour eructations, gnawing epigastric distress and the like, were experienced by 18 per cent of patients during treatment with prednisone or prednisolone combined with antacids. Among patients who had been maintained on the steroids without antacids beforehand, the incidence of digestive complaints was reduced from 38 per cent to 17 per cent by the addition of alkali therapy, and the severity of the distress decreased in others. Active peptic ulcers were detected roentgenographically in three of the 100 patients. In two instances the ulcers were asymptomatic and in two instances they were considered as reactivations of previously healed lesions. The incidence of active ulcers in this series was substantially lower than that reported by several investigators among patients treated with prednisone and prednisolone without the concomitant administration of alkalis. The size of dosage and individual susceptibility appeared to be important factors in the development of digestive disturbances from steroids. Results of the study indicated that the complemental use of antacids with each divided dose of steroid is highly effective in reducing the frequency and severity of digestive symptoms during prednisone and prednisolone administration. The low incidence (3 per cent) for roentgenographically demonstrable active lesions in the series suggests that the addition of acid-neutralizing agents during prolonged treatment with these steroids may afford at least partial protection against the development and reactivation of peptic ulcers.
The cervical spine, usually regarded as a supporting structure for the head, is also an important viaduct of vessels and nerves which must function with little clearance in a congested and moving space bounded by bone. Pressure in this viaduct is an important cause of headache.The cervical foramina although apparently roomy, are constricted by cartilage, by the vertebral artery and its adnexae, and by the lateral intervertebral joints. Osteophytosis, swelling or adhesion in this constricted space almost inevitably causes painful vascular or neural disorder. In certain postures of the neck the vertebral artery is constricted or even occluded. Traction or sprain may likewise cause headache through disturbance of the vertebral arterial nerves, the posterior cervical autonomic system or the spinal accessory nerves which originate in delicate filaments from all points of the cervical spinal cord.A syndrome described by Skillern-migraine-like suboccipital and retro-orbital headache-is due to disturbance of the second cervical nerve, which communicates with the first division of the trigeminal nerve. Headache due apparently to a minor scalp contusion may really be due to irritation of a trigger area at the site of an old scalp injury.
Since the epochal work of Hamilton there has been general acceptance of the causal relationship of the male sex hormone, age and familial inheritance in development of male pattern baldness. Some of the medicaments used in recent years may cause a diffuse loss of scalp hair. Alopecia that accompanies disease states is probably due to generalized toxemia and disturbances in metabolism. Sometimes male pattern baldness occurs in physiologic states, as exemplified by diffuse hair loss occasionally in the postpartum period. Alopecia areata deserves a critical appraisal, since it may be evidence of underlying neuropsychotic states that need psychiatric diagnosis and treatment. The development of alopecia totalis or universalis in 50 per cent of the prepuberal cases of alopecia areata is of real significance, especially since so very few patients recover their normal scalp hair. The conclusions reached by the authors of two articles reporting on 368 cases of alopecia areata, alopecia totalis and alopecia universalis that the evidence is overwhelming against the malfunction of the endocrine glands as the cause of alopecia areata must be considered real contributions to our understanding of this condition.A few conditions simulate alopecia areata. Probably the ones which are seen most often are trichotillomania and patchy baldness caused by agents used in hair waving and straightening. Our findings in 22 cases of alopecia areata of a persistent inflammatory perivascular and perifollicular infiltrate, massive plugging of the ostia, disappearance of robust hair follicles and diminution in total number of hair follicles and sometimes fibrosis are not necessarily diagnostic of alopecia areata but seem to be very definitely characteristic. Treatment for alopecia areata is of little avail. At this time we do not recommend the general use of the corticosteroids despite the improvement of scalp appearance in the majority of instances in which the systemic administration of these hormones have been employed.
The diagnostic aids used in dealing with biliary disease in adults were applied to the study in infants of the principal congenital anomalies of the biliary tract such as choledochal cyst, biliary atresia and biliary stenosis. Choledochal cysts were distinguished from other upper abdominal masses occurring in childhood by the use of intravenous cholecystography. Since the clinical manifestations in infants with biliary atresia or stenosis are almost identical to those associated with the obstructive phase of neonatal hepatitis, the problem of differentiation is difficult. The serial total serum bilirubin curve, a careful analysis of the pigment content of feces and urine and duodenal intubation for bilirubin determinations were found to be useful in making the distinction. Operative cholangiograms were helpful in some cases. Frozen section examinations of liver tissue during operation were of little value except to demonstrate certain unusual cases of intrahepatic biliary atresia. Routine liver function studies, including serum transaminase determination in a limited number of cases, did not help in differentiation.
The in vivo activity of soluble antigen-antibody complexes was tested by a single intradermal injection in rabbits. Skin reactions were obtained marked by erythema, induration, and occasionally hemorrhage and necrosis. Microscopically, diffuse inflammation and occasional vascular necrosis could be found at all dosages. This indicates that soluble antigen-antibody complexes are phlogogenic and provides support for the suggestion that complexes are responsible for the lesions seen in serum sickness. The reactions were similar in severity to local passive Arthus (LPA) reactions at equal dosages of antibody in the dosage range studied. BSA antigen could be found in large concentrations in affected vessel walls of both reverse passive Arthus (RPA) and active or classical Arthus reactions. It is suggested that this predominantly vascular localization of antigen might bring about the relative severity of the RPA and active Arthus reactions, as contrasted to the complex and LPA reactions. The finding of affected vessels in the complex and LPA reactions containing little or no antigen and antibody, while these components were present in adjacent areas, suggests that the antigen-antibody combination may cause vascular reaction and damage by the release of physiologically active mediators from the tissue or tissue fluid.
In the first part of this paper, a plea is made for a broad view by health administrations of the preventive aspects of venereal disease control, based on epidemiological rather than purely clinical grounds. Stress is laid on the importance of measures directed towards health promotion, specific protection, early recognition and prompt treatment, disability limitation, and rehabilitation. The value of case-finding and contact-tracing and of systematic blood-testing of certain population groups is emphasized.In the second part, measures for local and systemic prophylaxis are discussed. It is also pointed out that in the past 15 years there has been a rapid reduction in syphilis throughout the world as a whole (although some recrudescence has recently been reported in certain countries), but that over the same period the reservoir of gonorrhoea has been but slightly reduced. The possible epidemiological, immunological and other reasons for this phenomenon are gone into, and the conclusion is reached that the outlook for the control of gonorrhoea is now somewhat less favourable than it was a few years ago. Should apprehension on this score bring about a general orientation away from penicillin (particularly the long-acting preparations) in treating gonorrhoea, the effect on the reservoir of syphilis may also be unfortunate.
After briefly reviewing the history of penicillin therapy in gonorrhoea, the author shows that the number of cures effected with the repository penicillins, although originally very high, has diminished considerably in recent years, despite a general tendency to increase the dosage. The reduced efficacy of PAM and benzathine penicillin is demonstrated by an exposition of the current results obtained with these two preparations in the treatment of gonorrhoea patients in London. Some of the difficulties involved in distinguishing between treatment failures and reinfections are discussed.The paper continues with an examination of the possible alternatives to repository penicillin in the treatment of gonorrhoea. Data are given on the comparative efficacy of a number of prepations, including mixed penicillins, phenoxymethyl penicillin and various other antibiotics, such as streptomycin and the tetracycline group.The problem of re-examination of treated gonorrhoea cases is also dealt with, practical reasons being given for restricting the period of follow-up to three weeks.Finally, in a discussion of possible future developments, the author suggests a number of measures designed to prevent a further loss of sensitivity to penicillin in the gonococcus.
Sixty acutely alcoholic patients were treated in unsegregated rooms of two to twelve beds in a general hospital to determine the feasibility of open ward care. Personnel caring for them were first educated in the nature of alcoholism, the aberrations it produces and treatment with tranquilizing drugs. Fears and objections were overcome. Violent or unpredictable patients were excluded from the test, but those with alcoholic hallucinations or delirium suspectible to control were admitted. Preliminary physical examination was done to find out whether there was coincidental disease. In three patients, one with subarachnoid hemorrhage, one with severe anemia and one with pneumonia and shock, this examination followed by prompt treatment was probably life-saving. Tranquilizers, fluids and vitamins were given routinely, by mouth as soon as possible. Alcoholic patients were found to be no more unmanageable than others. If it were generally accepted that acutely alcoholic patients, diagnosed as such, could be admitted to open ward care in general hospitals, candor in diagnosis would be encouraged thereby, coincident disease probably would be promptly recognized if present, and long-term treatment for the alcoholic addiction could be begun early.
Since there has been no significant increase in cancer cure rates in recent years that can be attributed to the treatment method alone, new and more radical procedures have been introduced in an effort to improve the results. In radiation therapy this has taken the form of supervoltage generators and in the use of high energy sources of radiation such as Cobalt 60 and Cesium As this trend gains momentum, the place and future of orthovoltage therapeutic radiation (250 to 400 kilovolts) must be considered. General agreement is that supervoltage radiation offers an increase in depth dose and fewer local and systemic reactions, but it is too early to assess any change in cure rate. Measured against this is the danger of deep tissue damage, less relative biological efficiency and increased costs. In view of our ignorance regarding cancer, abandoning proved procedures prematurely is unjustified. The most promising trend lies in improved training and in the skillful use of what we have. While it may be that radiation of higher voltages will improve the morbidity and mortality rates, it would be better to concentrate these new modalities in centers where large numbers of cases are available.
The toxicity to laboratory animals of 4-(2:6-diaminopyrimidin-4-ylamino)phenylarsine oxide (compound 12,065), and its ability to cure laboratory infections of Trypanosoma rhodesiense were investigated. The intramuscular LD50 to mice was 22 mg./kg.; rats were more susceptible. Monkeys tolerated two daily doses of 6 mg./kg., but not two daily doses of 10 mg./kg. The intramuscular CD50 to mice was about 6 mg./kg. with two strains of T. rhodesiense recently isolated from human patients, and 2 mg./kg. with a strain of T. rhodesiense which had been maintained by cyclical transmission through tsetse flies in the laboratory for about 17 months. These results are compared with those reported by Ainley and Davey for a strain of T. rhodesiense which had been maintained in the laboratory by cyclical transmission for about 12 years and then by syringe transmission for about 10 years. The syringe-transmitted strain was at least 20 times more susceptible to the drug than the recently isolated strains. The potencies of compound 12,065 and melarsen oxide/BAL in curing T. rhodesiense infections in mice were compared: the CD50 for compound 12,065 was 6.5 mg./kg. and for melarsen oxide/BAL was 3.7 mg./kg. The ratios LD50/CD50 for the drugs were about 4 and 6 respectively.
The sera of certain patients with systemic lupus erythematosus contain an antibody-like substance capable of reacting with highly purified DNA preparations from widely divergent sources. Precipitin reactions have been demonstrated by double diffusion in agar and quantitative precipitin curves have been obtained. Complement was observed to be fixed in the reaction. Evidence was obtained that the serum factor possessed antigenic properties similar to those of gamma-globulins and migrated with this fraction on zone electrophoresis. The interaction of this factor with DNA exhibited certain specific characteristics which differ considerably from non-specific reactions between DNA and proteins in general. The DNA-precipitating factor appeared to be one of a number of related factors reacting with nuclear constituents of many different cells. It differed in certain respects from the "LE factor" which is responsible for the formation of "LE cells." The accumulated evidence, although not yet conclusive, favors the concept that the precipitating factor represents an antibody to DNA, and that it is one of a number of autoantibodies elicited in this disease.
In a study of 58 patients with various diseases of muscle or of the neuromuscular system, the serum activity of various enzymes was measured. Abnormal elevation of serum activities of aldolase, lactic dehydrogenase and, to a lesser extent, glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase and phosphohexose isomerase, was an almost constant feature in patients with progressive muscular dystrophy. These elevations were very frequent in dermatomyositis, common in acute cerebral vascular accidents, and rarely seen in other neurological disorders. Abnormal serum activity of iso-citric dehydrogenase was not observed in the course of the present study. Supplementary protein feeding of patients with muscular dystrophy had no effect on serum enzyme activity, no consistent effect on urinary creatine excretion and no effect on the strength of the patient or the course of the disease. Dystrophic muscles from a dystrophic strain of mice showed a decrease in activity of lactic dehydrogenase and aldolase below that of control muscle and an increase of iso-citric dehydrogenase activity. These findings, taken with the differences in serum activities of lactic dehydrogenase, aldolase and isocitric dehydrogenase in the dystrophic animals, support the conclusion that dystrophic animals handle these soluble enzymes in quite different ways.
The auto-allergic lesion in guinea pigs inoculated with homologous testis plus the Freund adjuvant was investigated histologically. The lesion was found to consist of disseminated foci of perivenous inflammation, lymphocytes and histiocytes predominating in the cellular infiltrate, with invasion of epididymal, rete, and seminiferous tubules and destruction of tubular contents. Guinea pigs up to 800 gm. showed a rapidly progressing diffuse hypo- or aspermatogenesis, which appeared to be secondary to the inflammatory disease. In these animals, the process resolved leaving an atrophic testis with few or no indications of the preceding inflammation and fibrotic scarring only in the rare instances in which actual necrosis of connective tissue elements had occurred. In 1200 gm. animals there was no general hypospermatogenesis and the late findings were limited to foci of aspermatogenesis. This disease then is an experimental auto-allergic orchitis followed by testicular atrophy without scarring. Its morphologic similarity to mumps orchitis and to sterility with "germinal cell aplasia" in man is commented on.
In a recent series of 26 pathologically proven cases of acute cholecystitis, preoperative radiographic examination of the abdomen confirmed the presence of an inflammatory process in The radiographic signs associated with acute suppurative cholecystitis are:1. Enlargement of the gallbladder, as indicated by separation or alteration in position of opaque calculi or indentation of adjacent bowel.2. Localized peritoneal irritation, manifested by ileus of hepatic flexure of colon; ileus of duodenal loop; effacement of haustra of the hepatic flexure or valvulae conniventes of the duodenum; obscuration of fat line marking inferior border of liver.3. Cholecystitis emphysematosa.4. Perforation of gallbladder, which if localized (retroperitoneal) is manifested by bubbles of gas in the gallbladder bed. If generalized (intraperitoneal) the signs are adynamic ileus of small and large bowel, increased intraperitoneal fluid, subdiaphragmatic abscess and plate atelectasis of right lung base. Visualization of the gallbladder and biliary tree after intravenous cholecystography rarely occurred in the presence of acute cholecystitis. Plain film examination of the abdomen aids in establishing the diagnosis of an acute cholecstitis and leads to the early recognition of complications such as perforation and peritonitis.
The results of three independent surveys concerned with rheumatic fever and heart disease in students at the University of California were assembled and found to be in close agreement. A full 2 per cent of all students believed they had had rheumatic fever; and several times that proportion gave a history of one of the rheumatic manifestations. Only 0.25 per cent had demonstrable rheumatic heart disease and 0.1 per cent had congenital heart disease. Physiologic murmurs may occur in 3 per cent or more of students entering college. Penicillin prophylaxis is important in persons with rheumatic heart disease, but it is important not to put a label of rheumatic heart disease on persons who think they have had rheumatic fever but who have no demonstrable heart disease. Long term penicillin prophylaxis or other long term prophylactic procedures directed against rheumatic fever are not indicated unless the diagnostic criteria for rheumatic fever are clearly met or unless rheumatic heart involvement is definitely present.
Calcium influx in the sartorius muscle of the frog (Rana pipiens) has been estimated from the rate of entry of Ca(45). In the unstimulated preparation it is about equal to what has been reported for squid giant axons, but that per impulse is at least 30 times greater than in nerve fibers. The enhanced twitch when NO(-) replaces Cl(-) in Ringer's is associated with at least a 60 per cent increase in influx during activity, whereas this anion substitution does not affect the passive influx significantly. Calcium entry during potassium contracture is even more markedly augmented than during electrical stimulation, but only at the beginning of the contracture; thus, when a brief Ca(45) exposure precedes excess K(+) application, C(45) uptake is increased three- to fivefold over the controls not subjected to K(+), whereas when C(45) and K(+) are added together, no measurable increase in Ca(45) uptake occurs. These findings are in keeping with the brevity of potassium contracture in "fast (twitch)" fibers such as in sartorius muscle.
P. vivax infection (Korean, St Elizabeth or Chesson strain) was induced in 17 neurosyphilitic patients. Pyrimethamine in single doses of either 25, 50, 100 or 200 mg was given to test the schizontocidal and sporontocidal effects.The first single-dose treatment of 25 mg or 100 mg was given between the 8th and 61st days of parasite patency and gave moderately rapid schizontocidal and very rapid sporontocidal effects. All observed cases relapsed.The second treatment, usually three weeks or longer after the first and with the same or higher doses, had either a diminished effect or none on the schizogonous and sporogonous cycles. Subsequent treatment, even at weekly intervals, had no effect.The resistant quality was undiminished in subsequent infections transmitted by mosquito bites, by the injection of preserved sporozoites, or by transfusion of infected blood. Preserving sporozoites or erythrocytic parasites at very low temperatures did not materially affect the resistant quality.In view of the evidence presented, it appears that resistance could also occur in the field when large single doses of pyrimethamine alone are given at less than monthly intervals to febrile persons having active P. vivax infections.
Sixteen patent P. falciparum infections (McLendon and Panama strains) in non-immunes were treated with single doses of pyrimethamine. The schizontocidal and sporontocidal response to the initial dose was rapid.Seven blood-induced infections, of which three were treated with 100 mg and four with 50 mg, did not relapse. Of seven cases observed after 25-mg treatment, five relapsed.Delayed treatment of the relapsing infections (Panama strain) with single doses of 25 mg or 50 mg, and subsequently 100 mg, had virtually no schizontocidal or sporontocidal effect. In one case the resistant infection was transmitted by mosquitos to another patient; the subsequent infection was also highly resistant to the drug.It is concluded that under the experimental conditions of this study resistance to pyrimethamine by P. falciparum may occur rapidly after a single dose of 25 mg, being manifested during relapses on the second challenge with the drug. Increasing the drug dosage does not overcome the resistance. The resistant character is readily transmitted by mosquitos.
Anticoagulant therapy of arteriosclerotic heart disease may prove to be most valuable when applied on a long-term basis for prevention of recurrent myocardial infarction. While its prophylactic value in impending infarction has not been established, at least the accepted treatment for the acute stage is already begun if an anticoagulant has been administered before an inevitable infarction occurs. The chief value of the anticoagulant, though, seems to lie in preventing cardiac mural thrombosis and extracardiac thromboembolism. It is by this effect, apparently, that mortality has been reduced by 50 per cent among survivors of myocardial infarction who receive continuous dicoumarin therapy. While the danger of hemorrhage is still present, it is being steadily reduced by increasing skill in the management of anticoagulant therapy, and for a long time the risk has been far outweighed by the reduction in coronary occlusion. Physicians have a duty to learn the use of anticoagulant therapy, obtain the facilities necessary for it, and apply it to patients who are able and willing to cooperate in prolonging their useful lives.
The intravenous administration of the antiadrenaline drug phenoxybenzamine (Dibenzyline) markedly raised the arterial adrenaline and noradrenaline concentration in dogs lightly anaesthetized with thiopentone. Graded haemorrhage led to a further rise in the amounts of amine. In adrenalectomized dogs, phenoxybenzamine moderately increased the plasma noradrenaline concentration. During haemorrhagic hypotension, previous treatment of adrenalectomized animals with phenoxybenzamine led to a significantly greater rise in plasma noradrenaline compared with that of adrenalectomized animals subjected to haemorrhage without treatment with phenoxybenzamine. Thus, phenoxybenzamine raised plasma amine concentration largely due to adrenal medullary stimulation, and led to increased plasma noradrenaline concentrations during sympathetic stimulation in adrenalectomized animals. The previous administration of phenoxybenzamine reduced the amount of blood which could be withdrawn before final circulatory collapse in both normal and adrenalectomized dogs.
Gastric haemorrhage was produced regularly in mice within 6 hours of the subcutaneous injection of a large dose (2 to 10 mg./kg.) of reserpine or of deserpidine. Rescinnamine, syrosingopine (SU-3118), and tetrabenazine (Ro 1-9569) were less active. Gastric haemorrhage was also produced within 6 hours when 5-hydroxytryptamine (10 mg./kg.) was injected every half-hour. Neither reserpine nor 5-hydroxytryptamine produced gastric haemorrhage in mice which had been vagotomized by tying the oesophagus at the cardio-oesophageal junction or which had been pre-treated with iproniazid. Amphetamine was less effective than iproniazid in preventing gastric haemorrhage after reserpine, and the following drugs were ineffective: cocaine, methyl phenidate (Ritalin), amarin, caffeine, nikethamide, lysergic acid diethylamide and its 2-bromo derivative (BOL148). Gastric haemorrhage was not observed in mice which had been given substantial doses of atropine or of hexamethonium before reserpine. The incidence of haemorrhage was substantially reduced by treatment with an antacid mixture. It is concluded that reserpine-like drugs cause gastric haemorrhage by a mechanism which has an important central component and which involves the liberation of 5-hydroxytryptamine.
Renal glomerular lesions were induced by rabbit serum containing antibody to rat collagen injected intravenously into rats prepared with subcutaneously administered Freund adjuvant. Neither the anti-collagen serum nor the adjuvant alone induced the lesion. The lesions were characterized by diffuse glomerular injury with swelling, shredding, and fusion of the basement membranes, crescent formation, cellular proliferation, numerous multinuclear giant cells, and capillary hyaline thrombi. Various rabbit antisera, including those against fish collagen or rat serum failed to induce the renal lesion when substituted for anti-rat collagen serum. Also, anti-rat collagen serum absorbed with its homologous antigen, native rat collagen, failed to induce the lesion. Although complete adjuvant, i.e. with mycobacteria, in which normal serum was incorporated enhanced the glomerular lesion which resulted from intravenous injection of anti-collagen serum, the incomplete adjuvant without serum was sufficient. Comparison of the renal lesions induced by anti-collagen serum with nephrotoxic nephritis induced in rats by rabbit anti-kidney serum showed that they differ histologically. Also the antisera used to produce these two renal lesions differ immunologically. Antibodies to normal rabbit serum developed in rats injected intravenously with rabbit anti-rat collagen serum after preparation with adjuvant, but not when adjuvant was omitted. The pathogenesis of the renal injury is discussed as a manifestation of an antigen-antibody reaction, with nephritis occurring only after the adjuvant-stimulated antibody to the rabbit globulin has been formed in the rat and has reacted with the rabbit anti-rat collagen already fixed by its homologous antigen in the kidney.
The effect of 18 pyridinium aldoximes on diethylphosphoryl-acetocholinesterase in vitro and the protection against lethal poisoning by ethyl pyrophosphate (TEPP) in mice pretreated with 0.095 m.mole/kg. of these oximes was investigated. Monoximes and dioximes of polymethylenebispyridinium compounds were studied in greater detail since they were up to 22 times more potent than pyridine-2-aldoxime methiodide (2-hydroxyiminomethyl-N-methylpyridinium iodide) in reactivating diethylphosphoryl-acetocholinesterase in vitro and protected mice against lethal poisoning by up to 15 LD100 of ethyl pyrophosphate. These oximes were also up to 52 times more potent than pyridine-2-aldoxime methiodide in reactivating di-isopropylphosphoryl-acetocholinesterase in vitro and were effective in preventing lethal poisoning by dyflos (di-isopropyl phosphorofluoridate). The antidotal action against diethyl phosphostigmine (Ro 3-0340) was even greater than that against ethyl pyrophosphate. Some of the most effective oximes had antidotal actions in poisoning by ethyl pyrophosphate, diethyl phosphostigmine and dyflos when given in 0.0095 m.mole/kg. and this effect was enhanced by 1 mg./kg. atropine sulphate. In vivo reactivation of diethylphosphoryl-acetocholinesterases by 0.0095 or 0.095 m.mole/kg. of oximes of polymethylenebispyridinium compounds was demonstrated in blood but not in brain. Atropine-like and neuromuscular blocking activities were studied on isolated organs and protection against lethal doses of neostigmine and related anticholinesterases were also investigated. Some of the oximes of polymethylenebispyridinium compounds have, relative to pyridine-2-aldoxime methiodide, a higher therapeutic ratio in mice and considerably greater water-solubility. The possible advantages to be gained from their use in preference to pyridine-2-aldoxime methiodide are discussed.
Moderate to marked interstitial pneumonitis with many Pneumocystis organisms was found in rabbits treated with cortisone and antibiotics and instilled intranasally with a suspension of lung tissue from either a patient or a rabbit with this infection. Organisms and pulmonary lesions of similar severity and frequency were present in controls treated in the same manner but instilled with either saline or a boiled suspension of normal human lung tissue. The administration of antibiotics and infected rabbit lung suspension only produced less marked lung changes with fewer organisms. Rare organisms and minute foci of pneumonitis were encountered in normal rabbits which had received neither hormone, antibiotics, nor inoculum. The pulmonary lesions in the cortisone-treated rabbits resembled closely the findings in patients with the subclinical form of Pneumocystis pneumonitis. They did not reproduce the massive lesions of widespread Pneumocystis pneumonia in infants. The findings indicate that latent pulmonary Pneumocystis infection was widespread in these rabbits but do not establish the transmission of the disease. The activation of latent infection was dependent on an impairment of host resistance which in these experiments was produced most effectively by the administration of cortisone. The differences between the experimental lesions and those of typical Pneumocystis pneumonia in infants suggest that in man an unknown defect of host defenses other than that induced by prolonged hormone administration accounts for the increased susceptibility to the infection. It is concluded that in the presence of widespread latent Pneumocystis infection the development of active disease is a manifestation of altered host resistance.
Serum and serum fractions from patients with rheumatoid arthritis have been subjected to anion exchange chromatography on diethylaminoethyl cellulose. The rheumatoid factor activity was clearly separated from the bulk of the gamma globulin by virtue of the anomalous behavior of macroglobulins on this column. Purification of rheumatoid factor by precipitation with fraction II, resolution in 4 M urea, and two successive fractionations on an anion exchanger yielded a highly active preparation consisting of approximately 95 per cent 19S gamma globulin with no detectable amount of 7S contaminant. Evidence was obtained for the existence of two factors by cation exchange chromatography (carboxymethyl cellulose) of rheumatoid serum and of macroglobulin previously separated by anion exchange chromatography. One factor (factor I) agglutinated sensitized sheep cells and latex particles and also precipitated with human fraction II. The second (factor II) agglutinated latex partides and precipitated with fraction II but did not agglutinate sensitized sheep cells. A substance with the properties of factor II was demonstrated in two of four normal sera by cation exchange chromatography. It was suggested that the agglutination of latex particles and precipitation with human fraction II, observed in the case of certain abnormal sera, may be due to elevated concentrations of factor II.
An in vitro test for the quantitative determination of the antigenic potency of poliomyelitis vaccine is described. This test-termed the neutralizing-antibody-combining (NAC) test-is based on the measurement of the capacity of an inactivated virus in tissue culture to bind neutralizing antibody. Details of the experimental design and technique are given, the authors stressing the importance of using small and precisely known dosages of virus and antiserum and of incubating the test mixtures for a sufficiently long period. In preparing the test mixtures, it is essential to incubate first the vaccine + antiserum, and then add the virus. No vaccine activity will be demonstrable if the test is set in the reverse order.EXPERIMENTS CARRIED OUT WITH THE NAC TEST HAVE SHOWN THAT: the test is type-specific; the antigen-antibody union in the system is irreversible; vaccines containing preservative yield the same potency titres as untreated vaccines; the test gives reproducible results; the results of the NAC test did not always agree with those obtained in animal potency tests, probably because of vagaries in the latter; dried vaccines retain their complement-fixing activity, but lose their power to combine with neutralizing antibody in vitro and to produce neutralizing antibodies in vivo-a finding which suggests that the NAC test measures in vitro the same antigen responsible for neutralizing-antibody production in vivo.
When small numbers of Brucella melitensis were inoculated into ABC mice, occasional hepatic granulomas without necrosis were demonstrated. The greatest multiplication of brucellae was detected in the spleens. Because it had been previously observed that ACTH or cortisone markedly accelerated the multiplication of brucellae in the livers of infected mice with destruction of liver cells, it was considered that triiodothyronine might likewise exaggerate a brucella infection by stimulating endogenous adrenal secretion. Although adrenal hypertrophy was produced, infection of mice treated with triiodothyronine resulted in severe hepatic necrosis or infarcts without the multiplication of brucellae in either the livers or spleens. The lesions were not encountered in untreated infected mice or in control mice treated with triiodothyronine. The necrosis was associated with minimal inflammatory reaction. The necrosis was not induced in mice treated with triiodothyronine and given brucella endotoxin. The precise genesis of the acute hepatic necrosis cited in these experiments remains undefined. Triiodothyronine did not cause deaths in mice infected with Br. melitensis. The infection was neither enhanced nor suppressed.
Sera from 30 children, suffering from ulcerative colitis, were examined for the presence of antibodies capable of reacting with antigens of normal human tissue. It was possible to demonstrate that most of the sera contained a precipitating and hemagglutinating factor, reacting with a constituent of human colonic tissue. This constituent was obtained, within 1 hour after death, from colonic tissue of newborn babies who had died without feeding. It could also be prepared from fetal tissue. The antigen can be extracted with phenol-water at 65 degrees C. and seems to be a polysaccharide. The precipitating factor in the sera of the patients behaves electrophoretically as a gamma-globulin. Phenol-water extracts from liver and from kidney also reacted positively with the sera from certain patients. There are indications which suggest that the antigen obtained from these tissues is identical with that from colon. Sera from 38 healthy children did not give any reactions with the extracts used. In additional controls, the sera of 32 children with various diseases, all of suspected autoimmune origin, were also tested. A few of these reacted positively with the phenol-water extracts from the organs mentioned above. Most likely, the antigen reacting in these cases is different from that reacting with the antibodies in the sera from patients with ulcerative colitis. The possible role of the antibodies in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis and the mechanism of their formation are discussed.
The role of polymorphs in the Arthus type hypersensitivity vasculitis has been studied. Polymorphs were found to play an essential role in not only producing the inflammatory vasculitis, but also were instrumental in ridding the damaged vessel of the antigen, probably by means of proteolytic catabolism at the inflammatory site. A temporal relationship between the disappearance of antigen from the damaged vessels and a decrease in inflammatory reaction was found. The earliest localization of antigen and its associated rabbit globulin in the Arthus vasculitis was found to be beneath the endothelium of small vessels. Since submitting this article for publication, Sorkin and Boyden (J. Immunol., 1959, 82, 332) have reported the catabolism of antigen in the presence of antibody by mononuclear cells obtained from the peritoneal cavities of guinea pigs. Evidence was presented indicating that the antigen molecule was actually broken down by the mononuclear cells. Techniques similar to those reported here were used.
The pattern of development of symptoms was studied following injection of 3 MLD (minimum lethal dose) of tetanus toxin in each of the following sites in the rat: vein, muscle, endoneurium, epineurium, spinal cord, subarachnoid space, and subdural space. Similar observations were made when 3 MPD (minimum protective dose) of antitoxin were injected into each of the above sites a few minutes after the intramuscular injection of toxin. Local tetanus followed intramuscular, endoneurial, and epineurial injection of the toxin; blood-borne tetanus also appeared in the latter instance. Tetanus dolorosus followed intraspinal injection of toxin. Both dorsal tetanus and blood-borne tetanus developed after subdural administration of toxin. Blood-borne tetanus, alone, appeared following intravenous and subarachnoid injection of toxin. In no case did injection of antitoxin at the various sites listed above prevent local tetanus from developing after intramuscular injection of toxin. Of the various sites injected with antitoxin, the intramuscular, intraspinal, and intravenous were the most effective. It is suggested that the endoneurial tissue spaces serve as a conduit for tetanus toxin from the muscle to the CNS. The perilemma of the peripheral nerve trunk may act as a selectively permeable membrane which permits tetanus toxin to pass from the epineurium to the endoneurium. Outward diffusion of toxin from the endoneurial spaces is apparently markedly reduced. The antitoxin probably is prevented from permeating this barrier in either direction. The importance of absorption of tetanus toxin by the lymphatic and blood circulation is discussed.
In a survey of its use in 198 cases of penetrating and nonpenetrating abdominal trauma causing various kinds of lesions, roentgenographic examination was found to be a considerable diagnostic aid. Consultation with a radiologist before, during and after the examination would seem indicated. The general plan of examination included anteroposterior projections with the patient erect, recumbent and in the left lateral decubitus positions, plus a posteroanterior film of the chest with the patient erect. Techniques varied with the condition of the patient and the nature of the lesion clinically suspected. Special procedures were done as dictated by the clinical and radiologic findings. Studies designed to demonstrate displacement of gastrointestinal and urinary organs should be made in anteroposterior and lateral projections. Factors that were important in determining the site of internal lesions from radiographic evidence were the site of associated fractures, reactive ileus, the position of foreign bodies, and by far the most important the roentgen abnormalities caused by escaped gas, blood, other fluids or contrast media, which caused abnormal densities, displacements of organs and blurring or obliteration of outlines normally visible.
Most penetrating or lacerating injuries of the eye in children justify examination under anesthesia to avoid further harm to an uncooperative patient. The pediatrician in doubt should merely apply a sterile dressing and have an ophthalmologist examine the injury in hospital. Nonperforating injuries may result in severe bleeding 48 to 72 hours later; this may be averted by bandaging the eyes and maintaining rest for four or five days. Removal of foreign bodies should be followed by application of antibiotic ointment and patching to prevent contamination. Congenital stenosis of the lacrimal duct may clear spontaneously or through application of decongestants and sympathomimetic drops. More severe effects, especially infection, justify probing at six months or earlier. The operation should be done under general anesthesia, preferably in hospital.Acute conjunctivitis is best treated by local application of antibiotics or sulfonamides only. Chronic infections may be better managed with the addition of corticosteroids, which reduce local inflammation and control bacterial reaction. Bacterial study should be done only if empirical antibiotic therapy fails. Bacterial desensitization may be helpful. The same methods are effective in blepharitis, aided by hygienic measures. Corticosteroids are most useful in allergic inflammations.Refractive difference is difficult to test before a child can read, and apparent defects may be due to lack of cooperation. Marked inequality of the eyes may signify organic disorder. Strabismus, on the other hand, can be detected as early as 12 or 15 months and should be treated as early as possible by proper lenses, surgery, or both. Pediatricians and parents should be aware that many children appear to have strabismus because of wide epicanthi and deep-set eyes.
From experience in six cases the anabolic steroid hormones, especially long-acting testosterone and estrogen preparations, are the treatment of choice in Paget's disease, as in postmenopausal osteoporosis. Details of the management of three patients over a period of four years are presented. Roughly 4 per cent of the population, mostly persons over 40, show some evidence of Paget's disease. Only a small number of them, however, have severe manifestations requiring treatment, such as pain, howing or fracture of the bones, pressure on nerves or heart failure. In rare cases malignant changes occur in the involved bone. Since the cause of Paget's disease is not known, treatment in the past has been largely empirical. Reifenstein and Albright had advocated the therapeutic use of calcium, vitamin D and ascorbic acid, and, in postmenopausal women, administration of estrogens; but with fractures or immobilization, intake of calcium-containing foods, such as milk, must be restricted to avoid dangerous piling up of calcium and kidney stones, and fluids must be forced. In recent years anabolic steroid hormones, principally oral androgens and estrogens, have been employed by Gordan and others to promote bone repair, lessen bone pain and decrease urinary excretion of calcium. While these hormones probably do not arrest the disease, they seem to stabilize it and bring relief of symptoms. More recently, Albright and Henneman demonstrated that very large doses of corticotropin (ACTH) or cortisone resulted in immediate cessation of bone pain, decrease in urinary excretion of calcium and histologic evidence of regression of the disease process. The large doses required, however, also produce dangerous side effects, such as psychosis and osteoporosis, indicating that such treatment probably should not be continued over long periods.
By the early 1950's, it was clear from numerous independent reports that certain of the broad-spectrum antibiotics were effective against the agent of trachoma. It seemed, however, that treatment had to be continued over long periods to effect a cure of the average case. With the assistance of WHO, comparative trials on a scale hitherto unprecedented in the disease-involving more than 9000 schoolchildren with active trachoma-have been conducted in Morocco since 1953 in order to assess the value of local treatment of trachoma with chlortetracycline and to develop simple and economic methods of treatment, for which there was a pressing need. Local application of 1% chlortetracycline ointment two or three times daily for 60 days gave almost 80% cures under reasonably favourable conditions and nearly 100% cures after re-treatment of cases not cured by the first course. Equally good results followed intermittent short-term treatment over longer periods. Relapse and reinfection rates were low.Collective mass treatment with antibiotics is clearly a valuable method of trachoma control. The use of intermittent treatment allows for a great economy both in antibiotics and in staff and other campaign expenses and makes possible the wide expansion of mass treatment programmes.
Previous experiments have shown that a mixture of cardiolipin and cholesterol in absolute ethanol (named "cardchol") might be used as an antigen in complement-fixation tests. The reactivity in the complement-fixation test of CWRM (an "ordinary" cardiolipin antigen) was compared with that of cardchol in several experiments, and it could be demonstrated that the reactivity of cardchol was especially pronounced in sera from false-positive reactors. In about 50% of such cases, quantitative determination of the antibody content showed that cardchol was more reactive than CWRM, whereas in syphilitic cases the reactivity of cardchol was inferior to that of CWRM. An exception was primary syphilis, which showed a reactivity level with cardchol equal to or even superior to that of CWRM.Examinations of a certain number of sera from leprosy patients had shown them to be highly reactive with cardchol and non-reactive or weakly reactive with CWRM; this observation is fully confirmed by examination of a larger number of leprosy sera, on which this paper reports. These sera were examined with a battery of tests using lipoidal antigens and with the TPI test. Testing with cardchol proved to give the highest reactivity with these sera, which were mostly non-treponemal.Subdivision of the material according to the clinical stage of leprosy showed that the highest reactivity of cardchol occurred in patients with lepromatous leprosy, particularly in those with leprosy of relatively short duration.Electrophoretic fractionation of these sera demonstrated that the substances reacting with cardchol were situated in the gamma-globulin or gamma- and beta-globulin serum fractions.
Previous work in some human cases and in laboratory animals has indicated that temporary local ligation of spontaneous tumours has a selective destructive effect on these tumours, with only temporary inflammation resulting in normal tissues. In the experiments described in this paper, 49 spontaneous accessible tumours in dogs were treated by this method, with periods of ligation of from 4 to 11 hours. Success, as measured by selective necrosis of tumour tissue as compared with normal tissue, was achieved in 29 out of 41 benign tumours, including lipomas, angiomas, adenomas and mixed mammary tumours. Treatment failures were encountered in two cases each of papillomas and fibromas, six mixed mammary tumours and two testicular tumours. Total necrosis of tumour cells occurred in all eight malignant tumours encountered in this series.The outstanding feature was the specific destruction of tumour tissue by a bodily process without participation of any outside agent. Emphasis was placed on an adequate inflammatory response following temporary anoxia, although a precise definition of this inflammation could not be offered. Post-ligation bacterial multiplication, which may be expected to occur in necrotic tumour tissue, is considered to be a secondary effect rather than a possible primary cause of regression and disappearance of the tumour.If ligation treatment can be shown to be successful for a particular type of tumour, it may be possible to apply it to human patients for the treatment of areas not amenable to surgery.The results reported here warrant new experimental approaches to the study of neoplasms at the cellular level to define more precisely the anoxic and inflammatory processes involved in the selective lethal effect on tumour tissues; and the authors suggest that trials should be undertaken of combinations of chemotherapy or irradiation with ligation to reduce ligation time and extend the possible benefits.
The localized Shwartzman reaction has been demonstrated in a highly inbred mouse strain (BSVS). This reaction was produced with marked regularity in these mice by administration of relatively small doses of bacterial endotoxin or other Shwartzman-active agents. It is considered the equivalent of the phenomenon described in the rabbit inasmuch as it has conformed to all the operational and histopathological aspects of the classical reaction that have been tested, including elicitation by various endotoxins, heterologous preparation and provocation, inhibition by anticoagulants, and provocation by antigen-antibody complexes. A reaction similar to the above but differing in its manner of production was also investigated and has been termed the single-injection Shwartzman reaction. This phenomenon was identical with the normal Shwartzman reaction in all ways except for the fact that it was elicited with but a single intradermal injection of bacterial endotoxin. In investigating the lesion it has been demonstrated that inapparent in the gross, but elicitible infection of the lungs with a Gram-negative microflora was uniformly associated with single-injection reactivity. Because of this constant association it has been suggested that a causal relationship exists between the infected state and the skin reaction, not on the basis of known immunological events but on the basis of the Shwartzman mechanism in which the lung flora, demonstrably excited by the preparative injection, appears to mediate natural "endogenous" provocation of the lesion at the prepared skin sites.
Five cases of aspergillosis complicating Hodgkin's disease and leukaemia are reported. The organs involved were: lungs (all five cases), stomach (Case 3); brain and meninges (Case 4); heart, kidneys, spleen, thyroid, and liver (Case 2). Cultures of Aspergillus fumigatus were obtained from the post-mortem tissues of three patients. All the lesions in Case 2 were suppurative. The other four cases had non-suppurative lesions characterized by spreading coagulation necrosis with peripheral hyperaemia, exudation, and haemorrhage. Invasion and occlusion of blood vessels occurred frequently. The various factors that may be responsible for the initiation and progression of the fungal infection are discussed. The available evidence suggests that Aspergillus fumigatus can produce toxic metabolites which are able to cause tissue necrosis and vascular damage. In patients suffering from neoplastic conditions of the lympho-reticular system, especially if steroid hormones or radiomimetic drugs are given, spreading, necrotizing lesions can develop unchecked by antibody or cellular defences.
Homidium, quinapyramine, and suramin (Group II compounds) produce their trypanocidal effect in vivo only after a latent period of 24 hr. or more, during which time the trypanosomes may continue to multiply; this is in contrast to trivalent arsenical and diamidine compounds (Group I compounds), which begin to act immediately. Group II compounds also differ from Group I compounds in that they have only a slight tendency to combine with trypanosomes, they have little trypanocidal action in vitro, but they make trypanosomes non-infective to fresh subinoculated mice. To explain these features it is postulated that homidium, quinapyramine, and suramin first combine in small amounts with some receptor on the trypanosome and then block some biochemical system which produces a hypothetical substance X which is needed for cell division of the trypanosome; the trypanosome is supposed to contain a preformed store of this substance X sufficient for several divisions to take place; and it is only when this store is exhausted that cell division is prevented and the trypanosome eventually dies.
On the basis of toxicity assays using partition centrifugation cells it was established that the sedimentation coefficient of type A botulinum toxin appearing in the lymph of orally poisoned rats was 7.9 x 10(-18) cm. per dyne sec. with 95 per cent confidence limits of 4.4 to 11.4 x 10(-13) cm. per dyne sec. This is a significantly lower value than that obtained for crystalline toxin but is well within the range of size for proteins. Exposure of crystalline toxin for 2 hours to digestive processes in a section of the duodenum of living rats did not significantly reduce the sedimentation coefficient of the toxin. The S(20) of crystalline toxin employed in the present study ranged between 12 and 21 with a mean value of 17.9. While it was observed that both botulinum toxin and albumin sedimented from lymph in glycerol gradient tubes to essentially the same level no evidence was developed to indicate association between toxin in lymph and serum albumin. The electrophoretic mobility of toxin in lymph is like that of crystalline toxin and not albumin. Dialysis of toxic lymph against serum albumin does not result in the appearance of toxin in the dialysate.
Griseofulvin, a new orally administered antifungal antibiotic which has proved to be effective for the treatment of a wide variety of superficial fungus infections of man, was used in the treatment of 51 patients with infections of the toenails due to T. rubrum. Thirty-four of the patients were treated with griseofulvin alone and seven were treated with griseofulvin combined with surgical avulsion of all involved toenails. The remaining ten had bilateral infections, and avulsion was done on one foot but not the other before griseofulvin therapy was begun. Of 34 patients who were treated with griseofulvin alone, few had complete cure even after prolonged treatment. Some nails showed improvement for a time, then no further gain; some showed no improvement; some showed resistant wedges of infection which penetrated proximally toward the posterior nail fold.In the instances of surgical avulsion, clinically normal nails regrew during griseofulvin therapy. This simple procedure, with thorough removal of all underlying keratinous debris, apparently did away with foci of possible reinfection. The results of the study indicated that surgical avulsion of the toenails in combination with griseofulvin therapy is an effective and practical method of treating onychomycosis of the toenails due to T. rubrum.
Twenty patients, five males and fifteen females, who had rubella arthritis were observed for periods ranging from one to ten years after recovery. Rubella arthritis in these patients was characterized by polyarthritis associated with fibrositis, myalgia, paresthesias and muscular weakness. All of the male patients but only one-third of the females had involvement of the knee joints. The small joints of the hands were the joints most commonly affected in women. Post-rubella arthritis rheumatic symptoms, especially fibrositis, persisted for many months in almost half of the females, not at all in the males. The leukocyte content of the blood tended to be low and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate accelerated in the few patients in which determinations were done.Latex tests were performed in 17 patients. Ten of the 17 were studied with the three-stage technique of Hall. Results of inhibition tests were positive in 80 per cent of the patients with rubella arthritis studied who were tested within 18 months after the onset of illness. None of the patients tested 18 months or more after rubella arthritis had positive reaction.
The factors present in streptococcal lesion extracts (SLE) which enhanced the lethal and tissue-damaging properties of Gram-negative bacterial endotoxins and streptolysin O were identified with the scarlet fever group of toxins. Toxic manifestations attributed to this group of toxins included lethality, cardiotoxic and other tissue damage, enhancement of toxicity, and pyrogenicity. Of these, the measurement of febrile response in American Dutch rabbits was the most useful parameter of toxicity. In rabbits, repeated daily intravenous injections of 0.125 Lf of a purified erythrogenic toxin immunizes specifically against the pyrogenic activity; this technique was used to type the toxins and to distinguish them from exogenous and endogenous pyrogens; non-specific pyrogens, such as streptococcal endotoxin, were not found in SLE. All types of the Lancefield Group A streptococci tested produced one or or more immunologically distinct toxins in vivo in contrast to Groups B and C which did not produce them; toxins A and B, previously distinguished by neutralization of rash-inducing activity in the skin, were produced in vivo. The A toxin was the most common, as indicated by its presence in extracts prepared with Types 28, 12, 17, and 10 (NY-5); B toxin was found in 10 (NY-5) and A new toxin, designated C, was obtained from a Type In American Dutch rabbits, purified toxin at a concentration of 15 Lf (900,000 STD) neither gave a Dick test nor prepared the skin for the local Shwartzman reaction; by this route, however, in contrast to classical endotoxins, they enhance the lethal and tissue-damaging properties of sublethal doses of these and other toxins. These properties of the immunologic distinct exotoxins as demonstrated in American Dutch rabbits suggest by analogy their importance in the pathogenesis of streptococcal disease in man. Evidence that might implicate them in sequelae, in addition to scarlet fever, is discussed.
Blockade of the RES was accomplished by the intravenous injection of carbon particles, thorotrast, zymosan, or a suspension of Bordetella pertussis. The blockade resulted in a decrease in sensitivity to anaphylaxis produced by the intravenous injection of soluble antigen-antibody complexes consisting of an optimal shocking mixture of bovine plasma albumin and mouse antibody to this antigen. The decrease in sensitivity to anaphylaxis was dependent on the dose of blockading agent and on the time between blockade and challenge with complex. The loss of sensitivity to anaphylaxis could not be restored by the administration of fresh serum from normal mice nor by guinea pig complement. Antigen-antibody complexes were rapidly removed from the blood with an average half-time of 11.9 minutes in normal mice. Complexes were cleared at significantly more rapid rates in mice previously sensitized to antigen. Although not all the results can be explained on the basis of blockade the facts indicate that the RES does play an important but as yet undefined role in passive homologous anaphylaxis in the mouse.
The pathological features of 20 cases dying in status asthmaticus have been studied. In gross sections the lungs showed no emphysema, but mucus plugs in the air passages and focal areas of collapse were outstanding features. Five cases showed cystic bronchiectasis which was of a similar distribution to the focal areas of collapse, occurring in the upper lobes as commonly as in the lower lobes.Histologically, shedding of the ciliated bronchial mucosal cells was prominent and this is attributed to a transudation of oedema fluid from the submucosa. Areas of regeneration of the mucosa, with the presence of simple stratified epithelium, were seen frequently. The loss of the ciliated respiratory epithelium and the transudation of oedema fluid into the bronchial lumen, with interference with the action of the remaining ciliated cells, are considered to be the essential factors in the failure of clearance of the bronchial secretions in asthma. It is postulated that bronchospasm plays little or no part in the shedding of the bronchial mucosa or in the pathogenesis of the asthmatic attack.
Three cases of generalized cytomegalic inclusion-body disease (salivary virus disease) in adults are reported, bringing the number of published cases up to The infection is very rare in adults although well known in infants. As is often found in infants with this disease, pneumonia due to Pneumocystis carinii was also present in each case. The first patient had Wegener's granulomatosis, which presented with acute otitis media: a review of histological material obtained at mastoidectomy eight weeks before death showed that inclusion-body cytomegaly was already present then. Various antibiotics and prednisolone were given, and the lesions in the respiratory organs and the arteritis healed to a considerable extent. Renal failure, however, was progressive and led to death. The second patient had thrombotic purpura and died after a few weeks' illness, during which oxytetracycline and hydrocortisone were given. Congenital absence of the spleen was found at laparotomy, which was performed with the object of doing a splenectomy. Focal cryptococcal pneumonia was present post mortem: six years before death a solitary cryptococcal granuloma of one lung had been treated by lobectomy. The third patient had had Hodgkin's disease for 18 years. During the first 12 years the disease had the characteristics of the so-called indolent form ("Hodgkin's paragranuloma") and it then passed into the typical form. Deep x-ray therapy and cytotoxic drugs were used during the course of the disease at various times, and streptomycin and tuberculostatic drugs were given because of intercurrent tuberculous meningitis which developed three months before death. In all three cases it seems likely that the underlying disease, or the drugs used in its treatment, predisposed to cytomegalic inclusion-body disease and concomitant pneumocystis pneumonia by lowering the patients' resistance. Just as some unusual types of fungal and bacterial infections have become less rare since the introduction of certain drugs, including antibiotics and steroids, it is possible that cytomegalic inclusion-body disease and pneumocystis infection may also be met with oftener in adults, perhaps particularly as a complication of the use of these drugs in the treatment of diseases which are specially liable to interfere with the body's defences.
A review of the literature dealing with irritability and other behaviour phenomena shown by anopheline mosquitos in relation to house treatment with residual insecticides has indicated the need for a re-appraisal of terms and criteria. A general term, "behaviouristic avoidance", has been proposed to deal with all those aspects of behaviour in which mosquitos, irritated by sub-lethal contact with insecticide-treated surfaces, can escape apparently unharmed from treated houses.A critical examination of relevant figures has as yet failed to reveal any convincing proof as to the existence of behaviouristic resistance-that is, cases in which the phenomena of irritability and avoidance are reported to have appeared or to have been intensified only as a result of continued insecticide pressure.Various criteria are discussed in relation to establishing the existence of "behaviouristic avoidance" in a species, and in deciding whether this irritability is natural (i.e., "protective avoidance") or whether it could be attributed to an intensification of irritability under continued insecticide pressure (i.e., "behaviouristic resistance").
Elevated serum amylase is a frequent concomitant of perforated gastroduodenal ulcer. To determine if there might be significant correlation between an increase in amylase and some of the other factors associated with ulcer perforation, a study was made of the clinical records of 1,000 patients with perforation of gastroduodenal ulcers. Sixteen per cent of the patients had amylase levels of 200 Somogyi units or more. This rise in serum amylase comes about in cases of perforated peptic ulcer as a result of peritoneal lymphatic absorption of fluid containing pancreatic enzyme which is spilled through the perforation. Among patients with perforated ulcers and elevated serum amylase levels, the higher the amylase level, the higher the mortality rate. The factors of amount of abdominal fluid spill, the duration of the perforation before surgical closure, the size of the perforation, shock and recent ingestion of food were also studied for possible relationship with elevated serum amylase. All appeared to be statistical if not etiological associates of abnormal serum amylase levels. Because high amylase values so often occur in perforated ulcer, there is no amylase level that can be considered diagnostic of acute pancreatitis.
A number of studies have been carried out on the effect of several of the 8-aminoquinolines on gametogony and sporogony of Laverania falciparum, but only very limited work has so far been done on the effect of single doses of primaquine. The authors have sought to repair this omission with a study of 12 subjects showing gametocytes of L. falciparum who were treated with a single dose of 15 mg, 30 mg or 45 mg of primaquine base, according to age. Batches of Anopheles gambiae were fed on these gametocyte carriers before and up to 7 days after treatment.It was found that a single dose of primaquine clears the blood of crescents in 4-8 days. In 5 out of 8 cases no gland infections were seen in A. gambiae fed on the first day after treatment; in 3 cases, however, sporozoites were found. After the first day following treatment no sporozoite infection of A. gambiae occurred in the 3 cases in which gland dissections were made. Feeding oöcyst-infected A. gambiae on a subject having received primaquine 3 and 4 hours before the feed had no effect on the development of the parasite.Following treatment, gametogony was apparently normal but oökinetes did not penetrate the gut wall, showed staining differences after 24 hours, and appeared to be dead after 48 hours.
The serum myeloma proteins associated with 20 mouse plasma cell tumors in C(3)H or BALB/c mice that had proved transplantable were characterized by electrophoretic and immunochemical techniques. Although the myeloma proteins ranged in electrophoretic mobility from gamma to alpha globulins, they could be divided into two groups, the gamma type and the beta type myeloma globulins, on the basis of characteristic immunochemical properties. Gamma type myeloma proteins (5563, MPC-11) showed a close immunochemical relationship to normal mouse gamma globulins. Eighteen beta type mouse myeloma proteins migrated as beta or alpha globulins on zone electrophoresis. These proteins shared common antigenic features which permitted their recognition, separate from gamma myeloma proteins. The beta type myeloma proteins were shown to be related to a beta globulin component present in normal serum. Strain differences were observed for the normal beta globulin component believed to be formed in plasma cells. The proteins formed in mouse plasma cells were found to be antigenically complex. Shared antigenic determinants as well as distinctive antigenic determinants were detected when representative myeloma proteins were purified and compared by the Ouchterlony double diffusion technique. The myeloma proteins associated with each of the transplantable plasma cell tumors in mice are regarded as distinctive and characteristic products of plasma cell metabolism. The variety of myeloma globulins was similar for plasma cell tumors arising in C(3)H as well as in BALB/c mice, indicating that differences in mouse strains would not account for the differences among the myeloma globulins. These differences, however, may be due to differences among the normal plasma cells from which the malignant cells are derived. If this is so, the variety of myeloma globulins reflect the variety of plasma cells present normally.
Physicochemical characterization of mouse myeloma proteins revealed the individuality of each myeloma protein. When the myeloma proteins are considered collectively a wide range of individual properties were represented, including electrophoretic mobilities varying from the gamma to alpha region, hexose contents from 1 to 4 per cent, and ultracentrifugal components from 6.5 to 13 S. The 20 myeloma proteins could be divided into groups, the gamma type and the beta type myeloma globulins, on the basis of physicochemical, as well as immunoelectrophoretic, studies. Two gamma type myeloma proteins (5563, MPC-11) resembled normal gamma globulins, sedimenting as a single 6.5 S peak in the ultracentrifuge, and having a relatively low hexose content (1 per cent). Eighteen beta type mouse myeloma proteins differed from gamma myeloma proteins and, typically, were found on ultracentrifugal analysis to have multiple components with sedimentation coefficients of 6.5, 9, 11, and 13 S, having a higher hexose content (2 to 4 per cent) as well as distinctive chromatographic and starch gel electrophoretic properties. All of the mouse myeloma proteins were heterogeneous and heterogeneity of two types was observed. Polymer formation was responsible for the 9, 11, and/or 13 S components seen on ultracentrifugation of the beta type myeloma proteins. Starch gel electrophoresis revealed this type of heterogeneity as relatively widely separated myeloma protein components, presumably owing to the retardation effect of starch gel on the electrophoretic migration of the larger polymers. Starch gel electrophoresis revealed a different type of heterogeneity for the two gamma type myeloma proteins, each of these being shown to contain 5 or more components differing only in electrophoretic properties. The physicochemical characteristics of the gamma-type and beta-type myeloma proteins in the mouse indicated the close similarity of these proteins to the gamma- and beta-(2A)-myeloma proteins in man.
The mechanism of release of a pyrogen from leucocytes has been studied in cells obtained from sterile rabbit peritoneal exudates and from rabbit blood. Attempts were made to induce human leucocytes-from blood-to release a pyrogen. Rabbit leucocytes, kept below 4 degrees C., were not pyrogenic and did not release any pyrogen when disintegrated. Incubating such cells, in various media, at 37 degrees C. led to the formation of a pyrogen which was heat-labile. The maximum yield was attained after 1(1/2) hours' incubation. The formation of rabbit leucocytic pyrogen was prevented by freezing and thawing the leucocytes, by heating them to 56 degrees C. for half an hour before incubation, and by ageing them in the cold. Nitrofurazone (5-nitro-2-furaldehyde semicarbazone) prevents the formation of leucocytic pyrogen when given by mouth to the cell-donor animals, or when added to leucocytes in intro. Leucocytes from rabbit blood formed leucocytic pyrogen, on incubation in saline, and this formation was also inhibited by nitrofurazone. No leucocytic pyrogen was released from human leucocytes subjected to mechanical, osmotic, or thermal damage, and it was not formed when the cells were incubated in saline. The source of rabbit leucocytic pyrogen, the action of nitrofurazone on leucocytes, and the supposed role of leucocytic pyrogen in fever are discussed.
Rheumatoid factors in the sera of patients with rheumatoid arthritis appear to be specifically directed against genetically determined "antigens" in human gamma-globulin. At least eight rheumatoid factors of differing specificity exist; usually several are present in combination in the same serum. The different rheumatoid factors can be readily detected through their pattern of reactivity with anti-Rh antibodies from different individuals. Rheumatoid factors in diseases other than rheumatoid arthritis were found to have a more restricted specificity, contrasted to the broader reactivity of the factors in most rheumatoid arthritis sera. A specificity similar to that for incomplete antibodies was not demonstrated for the reaction of rheumatoid factors with aggregated gamma-globulin or with gamma-globulin to form the "22S complex." In certain instances, using the anti-Rh system, rheumatoid factors were found to react poorly with the patient's own gamma-globulin, compared to that of other individuals of different genetic gamma-globulin types. These results, as well as additional indirect evidence, indicate that the rheumatoid factors can possess isospecificity. However, a certain degree of autospecificity was also found which was most clearly evident through complex formation with the patients own gamma-globulin and in the reaction with aggregates. The relevance of these findings to possible isoantibody as well as autoantibody concepts is discussed.
In earlier observations with the picryl system, it was concluded that contact sensitivity was a form of delayed (cellular) hypersensitivity to conjugates of sensitizer with autologous proteins indistinguishable in its immunological mechanism from other classical forms of delayed hypersensitivity to proteins. This conclusion has been confirmed and extended with the picryl and chlorbenzoyl chloride systems. It is shown that to induce a state of contact sensitivity, the minimal necessary amounts of hapten are of the same order of magnitude, whether this hapten is conjugated with protein or the free reactive chemical itself. From this, it is evident that contamination of conjugates with small amounts of unreacted sensitizer plays no part in the induction of contact reactivity by the conjugate. With the dinitrophenyl system, no contact sensitivity could be induced by the conjugates used; possible reasons for this discrepancy are discussed. Animals sensitized to contact by homologous conjugate can be completely desensitized by injections of such a conjugate in large amount; a similar injection schedule has no effect on the contact sensitivity of animals sensitized with the free reactive sensitizer. The capacity of heterologous (ovalbumin) conjugates to evoke anti-hapten antibodies is shown to be greater than that of homologous (guinea pig seralbumin) conjugates: the reverse is true of their capacity to induce delayed reactivity. Evidence is brought forward to suggest that in animals sensitized with homologous albumin conjugates, the specificity of the delayed reaction involves more than the hapten alone, even though the carrier protein is non-antigenic on its own. The contrast with the apparent lesser specificity of the antibodies later produced is discussed.
Studies have been described in which the effect of early and late or established inflammation, upon staphylococcus infection of rabbit skin has been evaluated. Inflammation was produced in skin by thermal, chemical, bacterial and immunological injury, and it was found that the area of inflammation was more susceptible to staphylococcus infection than was normal skin if the bacteria were injected within 2 to 3 days after the injury. When staphylococci were injected into an area of inflammation of over 3 days' duration, there appeared to be an increase in local resistance to infection. The way in which inflammation was produced seemed to have a little influence upon the effects observed. This influence of non-specific inflammation upon staphylococcus infection was compared with the influence of specific bacterial hypersensitivity, which also is associated with an increase in infectivity of the microorganism in sensitized animals. It was concluded that specific bacterial hypersensitivity probably increases susceptibility to infection with the staphylococcus in the same way as non-specific inflammation. The general significance of non-specific inflammation upon infection is also discussed.
Hedgecock, Loyd W. (Veterans Administration Hospital, Kansas City, Mo.). Effect of vaccines prepared from Histoplasma capsulatum and other yeasts on experimental tuberculosis. J. Bacteriol. 82:115-123. 1961.-Resistance to experimental tuberculosis was enhanced by the injection of a nonviable vaccine prepared from Histoplasma capsulatum in the mycelial phase but not by the organism in the yeast phase. Acquired resistance was established within 7 days or less and usually maintained for at least 29 days. When both mycelium vaccine of H. capsulatum and a vaccine prepared from tubercle bacilli were utilized in vaccination, the results were additive (in terms of acquired resistance) provided that an interval of 3 weeks was maintained between injection of each of the vaccines. Resistance to tuberculosis was also demonstrable 14 days after the injection of nonviable preparations of Brucella abortus and Cryptococcus neoformans, as well as by yeast and mycelial vaccines of Blastomyces dermatitidis and Sporotrichum schenckii. Resistance decreased significantly when the animals were challenged 29 days after vaccination, with the exception of those injected with the yeast phase of B. dermatitidis.
The clinical records and preserved specimens of 111 cases of primary malignant disease of the liver have been analysed. All were diagnosed in the Merseyside area, chiefly in Liverpool and Birkenhead, and all but nine were Europeans. Necropsy was done in The tumours consisted of 108 carcinomas, two sarcomas, and one mixed tumour. Liver cell carcinoma was nearly four times more frequent than carcinoma of the intrahepatic bile ducts. Both types were commoner in males, the difference between the sexes being greater in the case of liver cell carcinoma. Predisposing conditions included portal cirrhosis, haemochromatosis, and cystic malformations of bile ducts. The gross and microscopic appearances are described and the pathological effects discussed. Liver cell carcinoma tends to invade and permeate veins within the liver but seems, nevertheless, to remain limited to the liver for longer than carcinoma of the intrahepatic bile ducts. Liver cell carcinoma is more characteristic microscopically. The commonest occupation among the male cases was seafarer.
When human and rabbit 7S gamma-globulins were reduced in strong urea solutions by a number of procedures, their molecular weights fell to approximately (1/3) of the original values. Partial separation of the reduction products was achieved using chromatography and starch gel electrophoresis in urea solutions. One of the components of reduced human 7S gamma-globulin was isolated by chromatography, identified by starch gel electrophoresis, and subjected to amino acid analyses. The amino acid composition of this component differed from that of the starting material and also from that of the remaining components. A reduced pathological macroglobulin dissociated to components with an average molecular weight of 41,000. Several reduced human myeloma proteins, when subjected to starch gel electrophoresis, yielded individual patterns that nevertheless had features in common with those of reduced normal gamma-globulins. Reduction of normal and abnormal gamma-globulins was accompanied by the appearance of titratable sulfhydryl groups. Chemical treatments other than reduction were used to determine the type of bond holding the subunits together. It was tentatively concluded that they were linked by disulfide bonds. An hypothesis is presented to relate the structural features of the various gamma-globulins in terms of the multiplicity of polypeptide chains in these molecules.
Of 105 consecutive supracondylar amputations done at the San Diego County General Hospital during the five-year period, 1953-58, 88 were in patients more than 60 years of age. Occlusive arterial disease was the reason for operation in 85 of the 88 cases. Presenting complaints at the time of amputation were gangrene in 45 cases, pre-gangrene associated with severe pain in Acute arterial occlusion as a cause of thigh amputation was infrequent. The average age of patients requiring thigh amputation from complications of arteriosclerosis obliterans was 78.3 years; for those with diabetic arteriosclerosis or embolism it was about seven and a half years less. Supracondylar amputation was considered the procedure of choice in the elderly debilitated patients with far-advanced occlusive diffuse arteriosclerosis, complicated by gangrene, ulcer and infection of the toes or feet. Sympathectomy and direct arterial operation if done early in the course of the disease may postpone or prevent subsequent amputation. The surgical mortality rate (first two weeks) for supracondylar amputation was 12.5 per cent. More than two-thirds of the deaths were due to bronchopneumonia.
Using fluorescent antibody methods, deposits of bound gamma globulin, as determined in unfixed washed sections of auricular appendages from rheumatic hearts, were noted in a significant number (18 per cent) of 100 specimens studied. Such deposits were observed in myofibers, sarcolemma, interstitial connective tissue, and vessel walls. Albumin and fibrin were generally found absent from these sites. Control hearts from normal and pathologic material, including postmortem and biopsied specimens, in general, did not reveal such deposits. These various tissue sites which contained bound gamma globulin frequently exhibited evidence of alteration as indicated both by enhanced affinity for eosin and by strongly positive reaction with the periodic acid-Schiff reagent, and appeared comparable in some cases to "fibrinoid." Bound gamma globulin was not observed in cellular or stromal components of Aschoff lesions, nor was the occurrence of Aschoff lesions correlated with presence of bound gamma globulin. It is suggested that deposition of gamma globulin and the eosinophilic alteration associated with such deposition are related to certain of the pathologic changes of rheumatic heart disease. The nature of such deposits of gamma globulin was considered from immune and non-immune points of view.
Protease activity was measured through the hydrolysis of synthetic amino acid esters in body fluids and tissues of guinea pigs, rats, mice, and humans. Significant in vitro activation was observed in serum and lung slices of sensitized guinea pigs on addition of the specific antigen. Increased proteolytic activity was also seen in reverse anaphylaxis. More marked activation occurred when guinea pig serum was treated with peptone and guinea pig or rat serum was treated with agar. Protease activation was demonstrated in specimens of human skin under the influence of a poison ivy extract or croton oil added in vitro. Urinary protease activity of guinea pigs increased significantly during the first hours of anaphylactic shock and very markedly in peptone shock. Peptone shock, elicited in mice pretreated with H. pertussis, was accompanied by a considerable increase in protease activity in the peritoneal fluid as compared with non-pretreated mice which were insensitive to peptone. Proteolytic activity resulting from the activation procedures was due to a number of proteases. The dominant substrate affinity and inhibition patterns suggest that serum and urine proteases are similar to but not identical with plasmin. Anaphylactic activation exhibited patterns different from those resulting from the action of anaphylactoid agents. Tissue enzymes are either of cathepsin- or chymotrypsin-type or mixtures of both. Some of the activated enzymes, although remarkably effective in hydrolyzing amino acid esters, show no activity on protein substrates. This does not justify, however, their designation as "esterases." They probably belong to the class of specific proteases acting only on a single or a small number of functionally significant protein substrates. There is at present sufficient evidence to prove not only that protease activation does occur in anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid conditions but also that it is an important component of the chain of reactions leading to the allergic response.
Seven of twenty-two patients treated with intracavitary Co(60) therapy for nasopharyngeal neoplasms remained controlled for more than five years.No patient treated with intracavitary Co(60) therapy alone has remained alive. Of the seven surviving patients, four received external irradiation in conjunction with intracavitary therapy in doses which in themselves may well have controlled the disease, and the contribution of the intracavitary therapy cannot be assessed. Of ten patients treated for disease, recurrent or uncontrolled, following external irradiation, intracavitary therapy was effective for control of the disease for five years in two patients. One of these patients has no demonstrable disease ten years after the last treatment. The other is alive but with recurrent local disease nine years and eight months after the last treatment. Analysis of the material agreed with the long established experience that intracavitary irradiation for nasopharyngeal tumors is occasionally helpful in the treatment of limited mucosal recurrence or as an adjunct complementing medium-volt external irradiation. For the definitive treatment of untreated nasopharyngeal neoplasms, reliance in control is placed on through external irradiation of nasopharynx and regional lymphatics.
The injection into the cerebrospinal fluid of cats of 52 to 208 gamma of copper in the form of an albumin complex or as cupric sulfate, was followed by small elevations in the content of metal in the neural tissues, but regularly and promptly produced persistent quadriplegia and conspicuous histologic changes. Smaller amounts of copper caused less, or no, neurologic manifestations or histologic alterations. The earliest lesions were essentially unaccompanied by inflammation and were initially characterized by hydropic swelling of the myelin sheaths. They progressed rapidly to focal necrosis of all parenchymal components with marked degeneration of myelin and axis cylinders in the peripheral margins of the spinal cord, brain stem, mid-brain, and cerebrum. These histologic changes did not occur in neural tissues incubated in vitro in solutions of the copper-albumin complex. They did not appear in animals injected intraventricularly with ferric sulfate or saccharated iron. Considered together, the findings make it clear that copper in concentrations comparable to those present in the neural tissues of patients with Wilson's disease has the property of profoundly altering neural function and causing conspicuous morphologic alterations.
Sixteen cases of verified Cushing's syndrome, and twelve cases of probable Cushing's syndrome were reviewed and data on them were compared with various reports on Cushing's syndrome in the literature. The diagnosis hinges upon a high index of suspicion, and one or several of the major criteria may be lacking. Ultimate establishment of correct diagnosis should be based largely on the clinical features, although stimulation and suppression tests may help to confirm a clinical diagnosis. In well-established clinical cases, with borderline laboratory confirmation, exploration may be justified, especially if tests fail to identify a specific cause. In cases of adrenal cortical tumor, all pathological tissue should be removed if possible, with great care to support and stimulate the remaining atrophic adrenal gland during and following operation. In cases of bilateral adrenal cortical hyperplasia, the problem is one of how much to remove. At present most investigators advocate radical subtotal resection, leaving less than 10 per cent of one side.
A study was made of the development of various forms of local and systemic injury in animals treated with inhibitors of proteolytic activity. The agents used were tosylarginine methyl ester (TAME), epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA), and soybean trypsin inhibitor (SBTI). Hemorrhagic necrosis in the skin of the rabbit following intradermal epinephrine in combination with bacterial endotoxin (either intravenous or local) was clearly suppressed by EACA, TAME, and SBTI, given systemically. Tosylarginine (TA) was ineffective. No effect was observed on the classical Shwartzman reaction, the local Arthus phenomenon, or inflammation induced by xylene. The lethal effects of systemic anaphylaxis in the mouse, acute endotoxemia in the rat and mouse, and drum shock in the rat are suppressed by EACA and TAME. There was no effect on the generalized Shwartzman phenomenon in the rabbit and on anaphylaxis in the guinea pig. The effects of EACA or TAME on the injury reactions under investigation were not due to a pharmacological or chemical action on vascular behavior per se. The data provide corroborative evidence for a proteolytic step in injury phenomena which may be mediated through some common activation system. The working hypothesis is advanced that local or systemic stress through the release of epinephrine may result in an increase of a circulating activator of proteolysis and that this in turn may give rise to the release of vasoactive substances,-possibly histamine, serotonin, or a polypeptide.
Donor rabbits were subjected to shock by occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery (SMAO shock). Portal blood was collected from these animals at certain intervals after release of the arterial ligature. Infusion of this blood into sub-lethally hemorrhaged rabbits caused the death of half of the tested animals; a mortality incidence which closely matched the per cent mortality in rabbits shocked by SMA occlusion alone. Blood from sham-operated donor animals did not prove lethal when infused into hemorrhage-prepared rabbits. Infusion of SMAO shock plasma did not result in the death of recipient animals, even though the whole blood source of the plasma had proven to be lethal upon infusion into hemorrhage-prepared rabbits. Moreover, following pretreatment of donor animals with a non-absorbable antibiotic per os, the number of actively reproducing bacteria in the intestinal fluids was reduced to less than 0.1 per cent of normal; nevertheless, the incidence of passive transfer of lethality from shocked donors receiving this pretreatment was not consistently reduced. Furthermore, when SMAO shock portal blood was tested for the presence of bacterial endotoxin by the sensitive dermal epinephrine reaction, although some blood samples demonstrated lesion-provoking activity, there was no correlation between this activity and the lethal properties of the blood samples. In seeking an explanation for the production of dermal epinephrine lesions by non-lethal shock blood, a positive correlation was demonstrated between the lesion-provoking activity of portal blood and the serotonin content of intestinal tissues of rabbits shocked by SMA ligation. In addition, small amounts of serotonin were shown to be capable of provoking dermal epinephrine reactions in rabbits, under the same conditions used to test the lesion-provoking activity of portal blood. It was therefore concluded that: a toxic factor(s) is present in the portal blood of SMAO-shocked rabbits; that this factor(s) is not likely to be a bacterial endotoxin; and that the occasional provocation of a dermal epinephrine reaction by portal blood from SMAO-shocked rabbits, a property heretofore exclusively attributed to the presence of endotoxin in shock blood, can be entirely explained on the basis of elevated levels of serotonin in this blood.
Biopsies of the tongue and oesophagus were performed on 14 patients with uncomplicated iron-deficiency anaemia before and after treatment with iron. Haemoglobin and serum iron estimations were performed at the same time. Nine patients had clinical evidence of atrophic changes in the tongue before therapy was started. Evidence of regeneration appeared within one or two weeks of starting iron therapy. Two patients showed persistent atrophy. Angular stomatitis and koilonychia were longer in disappearing. Biopsies confirmed that filiform papillae and kerato-hyalin granules are frequently absent from the epithelium of the smooth tongues of iron-deficient patients. Iron therapy is followed by the re-appearance of keratohyalin granules and keratinized filiform papillae. Two patients complained of dysphagia, which disappeared after treatment. No abnormality in the oesophageal epithelium was found in any of the patients either before or after therapy. The relationship of oesophageal carcinoma to antecedent iron-deficiency epithelial changes is considered suspect.
Crohn's disease of the large bowel has been increasingly recognized and this paper presents a clinical and pathological study of 45 patients in whom the disorder was confined entirely to the large intestine. The clinical and pathological factors are contrasted with those of 86 patients with regional ileitis and of 200 patients with ulcerative colitis. Compared with regional ileitis the disease occurred in an older age group, had a different sex distribution, and a higher incidence of perianal and rectovaginal fistulae. A high incidence of recurrent disease following surgical treatment, found in the patients with regional ileitis, was not found in the patients with primary Crohn's disease of the large intestine. The incidence of the disease relative to ulcerative colitis was approximately 6%. The disease had the same sex distribution as ulcerative colitis but occurred in an older age group. The disease was usually of gradual onset and continuous course, and periods of freedom lasting a month or more were uncommon. The patients came to surgery much earlier than patients with ulcerative colitis.
The quantitative determination of antistreptolysin-O in the serum of a patient is frequently used as an aid in the presumptive diagnosis of a recent streptococcal infection. Difficulties have been experienced in obtaining consistently reproducible results, when large numbers of sera are tested, with accurate titration methods simple enough to be used routinely in a serological laboratory.An investigation of the streptolysin-antistreptolysin reaction has revealed that the time of interaction at 37 degrees C routinely in use in this test is very critical. Results are presented suggesting that this critical effect is due to the instability of the toxin, which is possibly attacked by the active proteinase present in streptolysin preparations. It was possible to develop a modified method using twofold dilutions of serum and a 50% haemolysis endpoint under conditions where proteinase has little effect on the toxin. This method has proved satisfactory in routine laboratory use with large numbers of sera.A quantitative comparison of various standard antistreptolysin preparations available throughout the world revealed a reasonable constancy of absolute value when compared with the original Todd standard. Differences in their neutralization reactions with streptolysin-O were, however, apparent.
The ability of the liver to form glucuronides was measured in 10 patients with infectious hepatitis. One test was done at the onset and another about four weeks later after the clinical symptoms had disappeared. N-acetyl-p-aminophenol (N.A.P.A.) or acetanilide was administered in doses ranging from 10 to 20 mg. per kg. body weight, either orally or by intravenous injection. N.A.P.A. is conjugated by the liver at the hydroxyl group and excreted in the urine as sulphuric and glucuronic acid conjugates. Total conjugated p-aminophenol, free N.A.P.A., and N.A.P.A. glucuronide were estimated in the urine of our patients. In the blood the disappearance of N.A.P.A. (free form) and the formation of N.A.P.A. glucuronide were traced. During the acute phase of hepatitis the excretion of total conjugated p-aminophenol and of N.A.P.A. glucuronide in the urine is lower than after recovery from the disease. Likewise free N.A.P.A. disappears more slowly from the circulation and the peak concentration of N.A.P.A. glucuronide in the serum remains lower at the onset of hepatitis than after clinical cure. These results indicate that glucuronide formation during the acute stage of infectious hepatitis is depressed, as are other transformation mechanisms, i.e., of hippuric acid.
THE OBJECT OF THE EXPERIMENTS WAS TWOFOLD: first, to choose the most satisfactory test for antifibrillatory action; secondly, to place several drugs with reputed antifibrillatory activity in an order of potency as a preliminary to investigating their mode of action. Measurements were made on isolated rabbit atria at 34 degrees C of the maximum driving frequency the atria would follow, conduction velocity, contractions, and of the threshold for the production of extrasystoles, flutter and fibrillation. Log dose-response curves were plotted for quinidine, papaverine, procaine, dibenamine and procaine amide. The maximum frequency test and fibrillation threshold test gave similar results with all the drugs, and the results gave the order quinidine 1.0, procaine 0.53, Dibenamine 0.47, papaverine 0.43 and procainamide 0.26. Thresholds for extrasystoles and flutter were much more variable. The regressions relating changes in conduction velocity and contraction to log dose were different from those for maximum driving frequency and fibrillation threshold for procaine, papaverine and dibenamine, but the regressions for quinidine and procaine amide were nearly parallel in all tests. Serpajmaline contained a substance with antifibrillatory activity as great as that of quinidine and with no greater depressant action on contractions.
Invariably in every normal rat a single dose of 7, 12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene, by mouth or injected in a vein, was found to cause apoplexy and massive necrosis in the inner zones of the adrenal cortex; the zona glomerulosa, the adrenal medulla, and a small region of cortex adjacent to the great adrenal vessels were spared from damage. DMBA caused these selective lesions in females and in males of 2 strains of rats. Hemorrhage and necrosis were observed in no organ other than the adrenal gland. Whereas adrenal glands were heavily damaged by DMBA, pituitary and ovary escaped injury by the compound. A single huge but sublethal feeding of o, p'-DDD caused degenerative changes of minor magnitude in the adrenals and only in a small percentage of rats; the property of inducing adrenal damage was not shared by other polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons which were investigated, including strong carcinogens. Presence of adrenal medulla is not a prerequisite to damage of the adrenal cortex by DMBA. The adrenal damage occurred in rats, given DMBA, from which the pituitary had been removed but the lesions were smaller in extent and less in incidence as post-hypophysectomy atrophy of the adrenal cortex progressed. The entire DMBA molecule was necessary to induce adrenal damage; fragments of this molecule did not induce adrenal lesions. Two components which are of cardinal importance in this specific damaging effect are: electronic factor; steric factor. The level of isocitric dehydrogenase in adrenal is modified considerably by presence or absence of estradiol-17beta.
An excess of D-benzylpenicillenic acid (BPE) was reacted with human gamma-globulin, human serum albumin, gelatin, and poly-L-lysine in aqueous solution buffered at pH 7.5-8.0. Under these conditions, BPE reacted predominantly with lysine epsilon-amino groups of the proteins to form the mixture of diastereomers of epsilon-N-(D-alpha-benzylpenicilloyl)-lysine groups (Di-BPO-Lys). BPE reacted also, but to a considerably smaller extent, with cystine disulfide linkages of human gamma-globulin and human serum albumin to form D-benzylpenicillenic acid-cysteine mixed disulfide groups (BPE-SS-Cys). Conjugates containing large numbers of BPE or D-penicillamine mixed disulfide groups were prepared by reaction of BPE or D-penicillamine with thiolated human gamma-globulin under mild oxidizing conditions. Anti-penicillin antibodies were produced in rabbits by immunization with either potassium penicillin G (PG) or a preincubated mixture of PG with normal rabbit serum (PG-NRS) in complete Freund's adjuvant. Specific precipitation analyses in aqueous and gel media (Ouchterlony), PCA analyses, and specific inhibition of these reactions with haptens were carried out on the rabbit anti-PG and anti-(PG-NRS) sera, using the above conjugates as antigens. The anti-penicillin antibodies were found to be directed against the diastereomeric mixture of N-(D-alpha-benzylpenicilloyl) groups, predominantly the Di-BPO-Lys groups. By these techniques, no antibodies directed against the BPE-mixed disulfide or the D-penicillamine mixed disulfide groups were detected. Three out of six patients with histories of allergic reactions to PG responded with wheal-and-erythema reactions to the N-(D-alpha-benzylpenicilloyl) (BPO) groups contained in BPE-human gamma globulin conjugate. Another such patient exhibited serum antibodies specific for the BPO group. One patient being treated with 25 gm per day of PG showed the presence of non-dialyzable antigenic BPO-conjugates in his serum. These results demonstrate that the diastereomeric BPO groups (predominantly Di-BPO-Lys groups) are major antigenic determinant groups responsible for PG hypersensitivity in rabbits and human beings. The possible clinical usefulness of multivalent Di-BPO conjugates and univalent Di-BPO haptens is discussed.
Total serum hemolytic complement activity is consistently reduced in animals undergoing accelerated "serum sickness". The time of maximum reduction in complement titer invariably coincides with the time of complete antigen disappearance. This temporal relationship supports the belief that the reduction in complement titer is brought about by in vivo antigen-antibody combination. The intravenous administration of a single daily large dose of BGG-precipitated complexes produces a marked but temporary reduction in total complement hemolytic activity. On the other hand, multiple injections of soluble BGG immune complexes prepared in antigen excess failed to even temporarily alter complement titers. Animals undergoing the development of accelerated "serum sickness" treated by either type immune complex showed a significantly reduced incidence of arterial lesions. Apparently, this inhibiting effect on the development of arterial lesions was independent of variations in total complement hemolytic activity.
The relationship of Bence Jones protein (mol wt = 45,000) to a beta(2A)-myeloma protein (mol wt = 160,000) formed by the same mouse plasma cell tumor (MPC-2) was investigated. The beta(2A)-myeloma protein was split by treatment with papain and cysteine into fragments (S(20,w) = 3.7S), similar in size to the Bence Jones protein (S(20,w) = 3.6S). Two types of fragments with distinct antigenic groupings designated S and F, were present in the MPC-2 myeloma protein digest. These were partially separated by DEAE-cellulose chromatography. The Bence Jones protein was found to share antigenic determinants with S fragments from the MPC-2 beta(2A)-myeloma protein and with S fragments from gamma-globulins. Physicochemical observations indicated, however, that the Bence Jones protein was not identical to the globulin fragments produced by treatment with papain and cysteine. Comparison of the S and F fragments from beta(2A)- and gamma-globulins revealed that the antigenic features shared by the various globulins derived from plasma cells (gamma- and beta(2A)-myeloma proteins, the range of normal gamma-globulins) are largely properties of the S fragments, whereas the distinctive antigenic differences between the gamma- and beta(2A)-myeloma proteins were properties which appeared in the F fragments of the molecules.
The chemical relations among Bence-Jones proteins, myeloma proteins, and normal gamma-globulins have been investigated by a variety of means. Starch gel electrophoresis in 8 M urea of reduced alkylated Bence-Jones proteins yielded patterns of bands corresponding to those of the light polypeptide chains of the dissociated myeloma protein from the same patient. One instance in which this correspondence was found was chosen for extensive study. Chromatography on carboxymethylcellulose in 6 M urea was employed to isolate the light polypeptide chains and heavy polypeptide chains of the completely reduced and alkylated myeloma protein. Isolation of similarly treated Bence-Jones protein from the same patient corroborated the correspondence to the L chains of the myeloma protein. Amino acid analyses indicated that the compositions of the Bence-Jones protein and the L chains of the myeloma protein were identical. Moreover, the thermosolubility properties and spectrofluorometric behavior of the isolated L chains and Bence-Jones protein were similar. Ultracentrifugal analyses of the L chains of normal human 7S gamma-globulin showed that their molecular weight in 6 M urea was 20,000. In aqueous solution their molecular weight was 41,000, suggesting that they exist as dimers under these conditions. The L chains of normal human gamma-globulin were found to have reversible thermosolubility properties similar to those of Bence-Jones proteins. The H chains of normal human gamma-globulin did not share these properties. Using spectrofluorometric methods, characteristic molecular transitions were found upon heating Bence-Jones proteins and L chains. These transitions were indicated by an increase in the intensity of fluorescence at well defined temperatures as well as by reversible shifts in the wavelength of maximal emission. The findings suggest that Bence-Jones proteins are composed of L chains of the type found in normal and pathological gamma-globu]ins.
Gamma globulin and antibody obtained from inbred C(3)H mice are split by papain and cysteine into fragments roughly one-third the size of the original Molecule (S(20,w) = 3.5S). The papain digests were characterized by starch gel electrophoresis and immunological methods. The highly heterogeneous fragments could be divided into two groups with distinct antigenic determinants (S and F), which were separated by DEAE ion-exchange cellulose chromatography. Approximately two-thirds of the fragments had S antigenic groupings and one-third had F antigenic groupings. These data are consistent with the view that mouse gamma globulin is split by papain and cysteine into three major fragments, two of which are of the S type and one of the F type. Antibody activity of the original molecule was present in the S fragments. Although the S fragments did not precipitate the antigen (hemocyanin) they were shown to bind antigen specifically in the manner of univalent antibodies. The S fragments of normal gamma-globulin were very heterogeneous with a broad spectrum of electrophoretic mobilities. Comparison of S fragments from slow and fast migrating globulins showed that the mobilities of the original gamma-globulin samples were largely reflected in the mobilities of their S fragments. Additional observations indicated that the F fragments also may help to determine the electrophoretic mobility of intact gamma-globulin molecules. S fragments of differing electrophoretic mobility were shown to have the same antigenic determinants, indicating that the structural differences responsible for the electrophoretic mobility differences were not involved in the antigenic groupings identified with rabbit antisera. The F fragments of normal gamma-globulin migrated more rapidly than the S fragments, were less heterogeneous, and showed several bands on starch gel electrophoresis. The F fragments differed antigenically from the S fragments, and had no antibody activity. Two groups of F fragments (F and F') were detected with some antisera. The gamma-myeloma protein formed in a C(3)H plasma cell tumor and similarly fragmented by treatment with papain and cysteine, produced much more discrete S and F components than were found in the normal gamma-globulin digest. The electrophoretic properties of the myeloma protein fragments were within the range observed for normal gamma-globulin fragments. Although the gamma-myeloma protein shares antigenic determinants with normal gamma-globulins it lacks some of the antigenic groupings present in the gamma-globulin preparation. Both S and F fragments from the myeloma protein share antigenic determinants with the corresponding fragments from normal gamma-globulin. In addition, both S and F fragments of normal gamma-globulin possess antigenic groupings not present in fragments of the gamma-myeloma protein, accounting for the antigenic deficiency observed on comparison of the gamma-myeloma protein with normal gamma-globulins.
Protection against anaphylactic shock in mice by reserpine has been shown to be a delayed phenomenon, probably not dependent upon a direct effect of reserpine. The release and depletion of catechol amines by reserpine show little likelihood of being responsible for protection because these substances are in themselves protective against anaphylactic shock, while beta-TM 10, a drug which interferes with their release is not. Since L-alpha-methyl dopa and reserpine both deplete serotonin, and since both protect against anaphylactic shock, it is proposed that serotonin depletion is responsible for the protection. Enterochromaffin substance is depleted in anaphylactic shock. It is also depleted by reserpine and serotonin, both of which protect against anaphylactic shock when given prior to challenge with antigen. The amount of enterochromaffin substance seems to correlate with susceptibility to anaphylactic shock. The behavior of animals undergoing anaphylactic shock and the effect of shock on body temperature is similar to the effects on behavior and temperature of treatment with reserpine, which is known to release serotonin. The effect of monoamine oxidase inhibition on animals undergoing anaphylactic shock is also similar to the effect of monoamine oxidase inhibition on animals given reserpine. These results are consistent with the views that the release of serotonin is causally related to anaphylactic shock in mice and that serotonin is accumulated in the chromogenic material of the enterochromaffin cell.
In the examination of 500 "well" executives, the number of unknown diseases found averaged 5.4 per person. Almost half of these executives had newly detected disease that was potentially significant to their health. Treatment was necessary in more than 47.7 per cent of them. One out of five of the total significant unknown defects found was either a peptic ulcer or gallstones; one out of five was a rectal adenoma; and one out of five was either hypertension or cardiac disease. One-third of the executives were overweight. Diabetes was found in every 20th person; and malignant disease was detected in one of every 41 people. For an examination to be "adequate" for the detection of unknown disease, the general physical examination must be complete and thorough. A proctoscopic is necessary, and certain basic laboratory screening procedures should be completed in each individual. Complete and routine x-ray studies of the gallbladder and gastrointestinal tract should be done, since they are the most important single diagnostic procedure, in detecting early, major, unsuspected, and often asymptomatic diseases. Routine consultations with specialists are a valuable asset in disease detection. Repeated periodic examinations help in detection of new unknown disease that was not present or not noted in earlier examinations.
One hundred and thirteen patients with vesico-vaginal fistula were seen at the University of California Hospital from 1932 through The most common cause of fistula was trauma associated with pelvic operation, and the operation most often involved was total abdominal hysterectomy. Malignant disease of the pelvic organs was the second most common cause, while radiation therapy and obstetrical causes were next in the order of frequency. Three fistulas healed spontaneously. Twelve bladder by-pass operations were done and 54 repairs were carried out in 46 patients. Thirty-eight patients (82.6 per cent) were cured after one or more repair operations. A variety of operative approaches were used, selected in accordance with the needs of the individual case. Bladder distention postoperatively, due to a plugged catheter, was held responsible for failure of the repair in three cases, and this complication was considered preventable. Close attention to surgical technique, the recognition of bladder injury, and proper repair at the time of operation are prime factors in the prevention of vesico-vaginal fistula.
Psychomotor or temporal lobe epilepsy is a frequently missed diagnosis. It is often confused with grand mal and petit mal epilepsy. At times it is the first symptom of an organic neurological disease. It is often masked as a psychiatric disorder or is associated with a mental illness without clinically detectable seizures. These psychic manifestations simulate all of the neuroses and major psychiatric states. Excitement states with amnesia may lead to violent antisocial behavior. All these manifestations may be aggravated by alcohol. Thalamic epilepsy shows itself in similar psychiatric manifestations and accounts for behavior disorder in children more than temporal lobe epilepsy. Atypical seizures with vegetative or emotional aura and a characteristic electroencephalogram differentiate it from temporal lobe epilepsy. Proper understanding of the varied manifestations, with positive electroencephalographic findings, leads to the correct diagnosis in most cases. All patients with unusual or atypical personality or psychiatric-like states should have careful electroencephalographic examination. Anticonvulsant therapy and other psychiatric treatment procedures can relieve most cases. Surgical therapy sometimes is necessary.
Tissues were obtained by open biopsy of a series of human intracranial neoplasms, fixed in Veronal-buffered osmium tetroxide, and embedded in Vestopal-W. In two instances in which specimens were obtained from oligodendrogliomas in regions where the tumor had infiltrated but not entirely destroyed cortical tissues, glial processes were found to be arranged in a highly organized laminar fashion. This feature was not observed in two additional oligodendrogliomas nor in other types of intracerebral neoplasms. Three types of laminar structures were recognized: perikaryal sheaths composed of several layers of overlapping or concentrically orientated glial processes, layers of longitudinally orientated glial processes along the outer aspect of myelinated axons, and small laminated figures composed of several concentrically disposed glial processes. Spirally constituted lamellar systems were not demonstrated. These findings indicate that under certain circumstances glial cells have the capacity to form sheaths and sheath-like structures by concentric lamination of several processes, rather than by spiraling of a single process.
The chief dangers reported with some common drugs are reviewed. Hazards of antibiotic therapy include: the increasing incidence of sensitization to penicillin with occasional anaphylactic reactions; aplastic anemia with chloramphenicol, and the poor tolerance of infants for chloramphenicol; staphylococcal enterocolitis; unnecessary "prophylactic" use of antibiotics. Thiazide diuretics may precipitate potassium depletion, skin reactions, pancreatitis, blood dyscrasias, gout, diabetes mellitus and hepatic coma. Reserpine can increase gastric acidity, induce mental depression, and when used with digitalis lead to ventricular premature beats. Hydralazine may aggravate angina pectoris, cause tachycardia, and bring about a syndrome resembling disseminated lupus erythematosus. Guanethidine may result in loose stools, impotence, and postural hypotension. Hazards of phenothiazines include jaundice, parkinsonian states and tremors, convulsions, hypotension, and blood dyscrasias. The butanediols have numerous side effects including gastrointestinal, cutaneous and hypotensive reactions. Prolonged corticosteroid therapy introduces a new danger in surgical treatment. The progesterone-like drugs may induce masculinization of the female fetus.
Categories of undesirable effects of drugs are described. Recent experiments on the production of hypersensitization by the use of ECT solution to enhance skin sensitization to penicillin, through the activity of common metabolites of different drugs, and to a non-sensitizing drug by pretreatment with a sensitizing agent are reviewed. The mechanism of hemolytic anemia due to an inherited enzymatic defect and that of drug-induced purpura and the agranulocytic agents is discussed. The three groups of drugs-(1) rarely toxic, e.g. quinine; always toxic in sufficient amounts, e.g. nitrogen mustard; intermediate, e.g. chloramphenicol-are presented, with special consideration of chloramphenicol. It is the responsibility of the pharmacologist to develop and adopt newer methods for toxicity detection, and of the clinician to practise caution in prescribing drugs and to attempt the early recognition of any disorder they may induce. The incidence, diagnosis, prevention, treatment and prognosis of the drug-induced dyscrasias are discussed.
After 10 days of a protein-free diet the acinar cells of the rat pancreas showed a coarsening of nuclear matrix, depletion of zymogen granules, some loss of ribosomes, and a widening of the spaces between ergastoplasmic membranes. In addition, there could be found, but rarely, a lesion of the ergastoplasm consisting of vacuoles of agranular, disoriented membranes, which was similar to a lesion produced by ethionine. Thereafter, a return toward normal structure occurred which was characterized by beginning increase in the size of the Golgi apparatus at 12 days, appearance of zymogen granules at 18 days, and a relatively normal appearing but smaller cell at 28 days. After 10 to 12 days of protein deprivation a reversal of many of the morphologic effects of protein deprivation was accompanied by a return toward normal of some pancreatic enzyme activities. Possibly this spontaneous return toward normal levels represented a raiding of protein stores, or it may have been an adaptive phenomenon.
Although there is no general agreement as to the role that anticoagulants can-or should-play in the prevention and treatment of myocardial infarction, nevertheless their use during the first 6-12 weeks after occlusion of a coronary artery seems to be well established for preventing both venous and cardiac thromboses and consequent embolism and thus lowering the mortality during that period. The data at present available suggest that in the prevention of recurrences of myocardial infarction long-term anticoagulant treatment gives less spectacular but at least encouraging results. Only recently have large-scale investigations been conducted into the prevention of the first infarct by long-term use of anticoagulants in angina pectoris; the results to date appear very promising, particularly in acute coronary insufficiency.While there is a very real danger of haemorrhage during long-term anticoagulant treatment, the author considers that haemorrhage need rarely be severe or fatal provided strict attention is paid to contra-indications (e.g., hypertension) and provided adequate control of the patient is ensured.
Fatal shock was produced in animals by drum trauma, temporary occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery, and bacterial endotoxin. Measurements were made of release of beta glucuronidase and cathepsins from the large granule fractions of livers, and of levels of circulating beta glucuronidase and acid phosphatase in these animals. Experiments were also carried out with animals rendered tolerant by previous exposure to sublethal amounts of trauma or by pretreatment with cortisone. The results show that release of beta glucuronidase and cathepsins from the large granule fraction of liver was increased during traumatic and endotoxin shock in the rat. Similarly, circulating levels of acid phosphatase and beta glucuronidase were increased during traumatic shock in rats and rabbits, and during endotoxin shock in rats. The data also indicate that tolerance to traumatic injury, induced by prior conditioning, prevented the increase in levels of circulating acid phosphatase normally observed after stress, and may have been associated with an increased stability of hepatic lysosomal particles. In addition, cortisone, which appears to "stabilize" hepatic lysosomes in vivo, also reduced the increase in plasma acid phosphatase brought about by endotoxin and trauma. From the foregoing observations, it is suggested that: Disruption of lysosomes and release of their contained enzymes in free, active form may occur in liver and intestine of shocked animals. The activation of lysosomal hydrolases within cells and their release into the circulation may play an important role in exacerbating tissue injury and accelerating the development of irreversibility during shock. The increased stability of lysosomes of tolerant and of cortisone-treated animals may constitute an important component of the resistance of these animals to shock.
In a study of 44 infants and young children with staphylococcal pneumonia and pleurisy, cases were found to be divisible into three clinical groups: those with predominantly digestive tract symptomatology (seven); those in acute respiratory distress (28); and those with signs of central nervous system disorder (nine). Characteristic radiographic findings often permitted an early etiologic diagnosis, confirmed later by bacteriologic culture or by the course of the disease. The length of hospitalization was found to be directly proportional to the length of time between the onset of symptoms and the start of adequate therapy. Nineteen patients required thoracotomy, two were drained by a Küss trocar, 13 required repeated pleural aspiration, five underwent spontaneous resorption of the empyema and five had no pleural effusion. In several instances antibiotics were used in very high dosage (three to four times the suggested maximal dose). The main agents used were erythromycin, chloramphenicol and ristocetin; the dosage of the last named never exceeded the maximal recommended dose. Twenty-eight patients were less than one year old; of these seven died. Sixteen were over one year of age, the oldest being six years; all of these were cured.
The production of endogenous pyrogen by intact granulocytes obtained from acute peritoneal exudates is blocked by arsenite, iodoacetate, p-chloromercuribenzoate, and N-ethylmaleimide in concentrations of 2 x 10(-4)M. When the concentration of these sulfhydryl-reactive enzyme inhibitors is increased to 2 x 10(-2)M, only the iodoacetate inactivates the pyrogen molecule, whereas the arsenite, the p-chloromercuribenzoate, and the N-ethylmaleimide have no gross effect upon its thermogenic activity. Both diisopropyl fluorophosphate and dinitrofluorobenzene are even more potent inactivators of the pyrogen molecule than iodoacetate, although the action of the DFP cannot be blocked or reversed by known antagonists such as 2-pyridine aldoxime methiodide and hydroxylamine. Proteolytic enzymes, potentially capable of degrading leucocytic pyrogen, are released from polymorphonuclear leucocytes, along with the pyrogen, when the cells are incubated in normal salt solution. These enzymes are readily activated by a sufficient concentration of glutathione (2 x 10(-2)M). They are not present in preparations of partially purified leucocytic pyrogen from which much of the non-pyrogenic protein has been removed. Glutathione by itself, even at concentrations as high as 2 x 10(-1)M, does not affect in the gross the thermogenic activity of the purified pyrogen. The implications of these findings in relation to both the production and the chemical characteristics of leucocytic pyrogen are discussed.
Determination of the dose-response curve for rabbit leucocytic pyrogen reveals a hyperthermic "ceiling" at which there is a marked insensitivity to dosage. This finding has important implications in relation to the quantitative assay of leucocytic pyrogen. Polymorphonuclear leucocytes separated from normal rabbit blood possess the capacity to produce less than 5 per cent of the pyrogen generated by the same number of rabbit granulocytes collected from acute peritoneal exudates. Blood granulocytes, separated in the cold from the buffy coat, contain no detectable preformed pyrogen. The amount of preformed pyrogen within exudate granulocytes represents but a small fraction of the pyrogen which the cells are capable of generating when incubated in normal saline at 37 degrees C. It is suggested that the active pyrogen is formed from an inactive precursor within the cells. Under the conditions tested, cell fragments of rabbit granulocytes fail to produce endogenous pyrogen. The fact that the production of pyrogen is blocked at 4 degrees C is in keeping with the hypothesis that it involves metabolic reactions within the cell.
Compounds structurally related to known amoebicidal dichloroacetamides were examined for activity against Entamoeba histolytica by an in vivo/in vitro method and an experimental caecal infection in weanling rats. Dichloro-N-2-hydroxyethyl-N-p-methylsulphonylbenzylacetamide (M&B 4321) was the first compound of this series to show high amoebicidal activity against experimental E. histolytica infections in young rats. Some subsequent compounds, particularly several closely related to M&B 4321, had a similar effect. Comparative experiments on both activity and toxicity were carried out on M&B 4321 and diloxanide, since the latter compound had already been administered safely to man and had shown good activity against non-dysenteric amoebiasis. The two compounds were found to be generally similar in properties. Other compounds which were of the same order of activity were discovered later, but as none had much more activity than M&B 4321 they were not studied in detail. A small trial against dysenteric amoebiasis showed that M&B 4321 was amoebicidal in man but that the cure rate was disappointing.
A technique for measuring the alkaline phosphatase activity of serum protein fractions separated by electrophoresis on cellulose acetate strips is described. Alkaline phosphatase activity in alpha 2, alpha 1, and beta globulins and in albumin is present in varying proportions in normal and pathological sera. In normal sera peak activity is in the alpha 2 globulins and beta globulins have a little more than half the alpha 2 activity. Albumin activity is often more than 10% of the total, but alpha 1 and gamma globulin activity is less than this. In bone disorders with a high serum alkaline phosphatase a large, and sometimes predominant, part of the increase is due to raised beta globulin phosphatase activity, and alpha 2 activity is also raised. Alpha 1 activity, though usually low, may be increased. In hepatobiliary disorders with a high phosphatase concentration the increase is due mainly to raised alpha 2 phosphatase activity, and there is also an increase in alpha 1 phosphatase. Beta activity is usually, but not always, low, and albumin activity may be somewhat increased in obstructive jaundice and liver metastases. There is some overlap between these two patterns of alkaline phosphatase distribution. The findings are consistent with the possibility that alkaline phosphatases in different protein fractions are derived from different tissues.
Experiments were performed to study the mechanisms of the sensitivity of normal and neoplastic mouse cells to the cytotoxic action of humoral isoantibodies. A quantitative in vitro absorption procedure was used to compare the residua] hemagglutinin titer of a certain isoantiserum after the absorption of a known volume with known cell numbers. The cell numbers were adjusted so as to yield the same average total cell surface area. Lymph node cells and various solid and ascites tumor cells of strain A and C3H origin were used. It was found that different cell types differed with regard to their concentration of isoantigenic surface receptors. High correlation coefficients were found between the cytotoxic sensitivity and the concentration of isoantigenic receptors. It was shown that tumor cells which were partially or completely resistant to a single isoantiserum could be made sensitive to humoral isoantibodies provided that they were treated with mixtures of antisera, produced in different donor genotypes against the same target genotype, since each individual genotype reacts against a different antigen combination. This supports the concept that cytotoxic sensitivity is related to the surface concentration of reactive sites. Hematopoietic liver cells of newborn mice, which are completely resistant to isoantibodies, and spleen and lymph node cells of adult animals which are highly sensitive, were compared with regard to their ability to take up fluorescein-conjugated normal mouse serum in vitro. No differences were found between their visible pinocytotic uptake. Similar experiments were performed with various ascites tumor cells having different cytotoxic sensitivity. All tumor cells studied had a low pinocytosing ability which was not correlated to their sensitivity to humoral isoantibodies.
A method has been described for the estimation of neostigmine and pyridostigmine in urine by ion exchange treatment and colorimetric estimation of the blue complex produced when either of the drugs is made to react with bromophenol blue. Urine containing 2 mug/ml. or more of neostigmine or 3 mug/ml. or more of pyridostigmine can be quantitatively estimated. After intramuscular injection of neostigmine to patients with myasthenia gravis, up to 67% of the drug is excreted, whilst after oral administration less than 5% is excreted. When pyridostigmine is given by mouth, the amount of drug excreted in the urine varies between approximately 2 and 16%. It has been established by chromatographic analysis that the blue complexes formed under these conditions are due only to neostigmine and pyridostigmine respectively and that the quantitative estimation described is a true measure of the amount of these drugs excreted in the urine. The significance of these results is discussed in relation to the absorption and metabolism of the two drugs.
Necrosis of the skin was produced by the injection of measured quantities of electrolytes and of amino compounds into the dermis, and the relative ability of these substances to produce it was determined. Inflammation characterized by edema and accumulation of leucocytes accompanied necrosis. The ability of electrolytes to produce necrosis was found to increase with the valence of their basic ion, and in this respect was in accord with their ability to denature proteins. The quantity of different electrolytes needed to produce necrosis varied in the same order as the molar concentration of these electrolytes, that is isotonic with liver or kidney cells. Necrosis caused by amino compounds occurred with similar relation to the isotonicity of liver cells. In this as in other relations the cells acted as osmometers. The foregoing relations indicate that denaturation of proteins, necrosis of living tissue, and osmotic activity of liver or kidney cells are determined by molecular weight, valence, and ion-dissociation of electrolytes, that is, by the factors that determine the colligative properties of electrolytes. Agents such as turpentine, mustard, or croton oil and some halogen substitution compounds of methyl that are insoluble in water and soluble in lipoids have produced skin necrosis and inflammation.
There is no doubt that cancer cells do enter the circulating blood of persons with malignant lesions. Differentiation of them from other atypical cells found normally in the bloodstream is at present being studied. Investigators have expressed belief that most of the circulating malignant cells in the early stages of the disease are destroyed by host resistance. Surviving cells, however, develop into occult metastatic emboli which may remain quiescent until host defenses collapse. Clinical measures for the active control of these dormant implants have not been evolved as yet. Inasmuch as the mechanism of host resistance is still beyond clinical comprehension, the only known way to improve survival rates is the universal application of practical clinical methods for preventing iatrogenic disseminations, for devitalizing malignant cells and for apprehending emboli that may have left the main lesion just before surgical operation. Since it adequately eradicates primary sources of cell dissemination, conventional radical resection is still the treatment of choice for dealing with early solid neoplasms.
Chromatographic separations on DEAE cellulose have been carried out on the seromucoid fraction from forty-one normal individuals and twenty-three patients horpitalized with unilateral pneumococcal pneumonia. During the acute stages of their illness, all twenty-three patients showed a very marked difference in their seromucoid pattern as contrasted to the control group, both groups being comparable in age, sex, and race. As the patients recovered, their seromucoid patterns returned to that of the control group. Three patients with bilateral pneumococcal pneumonia showed seromucoid patterns similar to those of the twenty-three patients with unilateral pneumococcal pneumonia. Five individuals with viral pneumonia showed a seromucoid pattern similar to those observed in patients with pneumococcal pneumonia. The data suggested that the seromucoid pattern observed in pneumonia depended upon the stage of the disease of the patient, different patterns being observed during the acute, convalescent, and complete recovery stages. Each stage showed a characteristic pattern. The seromucoid pattern of seven patients with acute leukemia differed from that of the control groups and also differed from that observed in patients with pneumonia. Five individuals with chronic lymphocytic leukemia showed seromucoid patterns which could not be distinguished from those of the control group in spite of the fact that all showed clinical signs of disease at the time the blood sample was drawn for fractionation.
The author discusses the relation between the presence of cancer cells in the circulating blood and the development of metastasis, as demonstrated by studies on animals with experimentally induced tumours, by post-mortem studies on fatal human cases of cancer, and by studies on patients operated upon for stomach cancer. Although the correlation between the presence of tumour cells in the blood and the occurrence of metastatic lesions was found to be less close in the human cases of cancer than in the experimental animals, the author considers that it was sufficiently marked to justify the assumption that the appearance of tumour cells in the circulating blood is an important link in the chain of processes leading to cancer metastasis. In conclusion, the author puts forward the suggestion, based on the results of animal experiments, that chemotherapy might have an inhibitory effect on the liberated tumour cells in the blood, particularly if these cells are present only in small numbers, and thus be instrumental in halting the course of metastasis.
Passive transfer of tritiated thymidine-labeled lymphoid cells sensitized to the simple chemical DNFB into homologous guinea pigs resulted in positive contact skin reactions 24 hours after skin testing with DNFB. Labeled sensitized cells were found to accumulate at these sites, whereas, labeled nonsensitized lymphoid cells did not appear non-specifically in contact skin reaction sites. The labeled cells were small and large lymphocytes and immature cells of the lymphoid series. The maximum reactions were obtained at 24 hours, with an average of 3.4 per cent of the infiltrating mononuclear cells showing a label. At 48 hours, the macro- and microscopic reactions were similar to the 24 hour reactions but diminished in intensity, and the number of labeled cells in the infiltrates had decreased to 1 per cent of the total infiltrating mononuclear cells. (1/4) to (1/3) of the labeled cells were found within the epidermis in the test skin sites. These data have indicated that contact sensitivity, like tuberculin sensitivity, required the sensitized cell to initiate the skin reaction and that the majority of the cellular infiltrate was the result of non-specific host response to injury.
Changes characteristic of an inflammatory reaction caused by the injection of an injurious agent into the peritoneal cavity were measurable by the quantity of peritoneal fluid, by the number of leucocytes that entered the cavity, and by the abundance of exuded protein. Inflammation increased in severity along with ion dissociation and increase of the valence of electrolytes. With chlorides, sulfates, and nitrates it increased in each instance with the valence of their basic ions. The reactions caused by sodium chloride, sodium sulfate, and sodium citrate increased with the valence of their acid ions. Salts of heavy metals which fix and precipitate proteins caused more active inflammation than did other electrolytes. Histamine and arginine caused active inflammatory reactions with similar characteristics. The amino compounds, urea, citrulline, and creatinine, glycine, alanine, histidine, arginine, and histamine, produced inflammatory reaction in the order of severity with which, in foregoing experiments, they had caused necrosis when injected into the dermis. The acids and alkalis that were tested caused active inflammation when their acidity approached pH 1 or their alkalinity pH 11 respectively, but with approximate neutrality the inflammatory reaction became scant. These changes were in accord with the extent of necrosis when acid or alkalis, in foregoing experiments, were injected into the dermis. When histamine or arginine combines with hydrochloric acid to form histamine dihydrochloride or arginine monohydrochloride alkalinity is lost and inflammatory reactions caused by the hydrochlorides are relatively mild. The characteristic changes which accompany histamine and arginine do not occur. The combination of histamine with phosphoric acid to form histamine acid phosphate has similar relation to histamine. Inflammatory reactions caused by monobasic, dibasic, and tribasic sodium phosphate increased in activity in accord with increasing alkalinity referable to the basic ions of these salts. The activity of inflammatory reactions has been found to vary in accord with the chemical constitution of the injurious agents that have been tested.
The extrarenal manifestations of hypernephroma in 34 medical patients are described, and the literature on this subject is reviewed. One case presented with hematuria and 11 other cases with metastases. Presentation was not obviously related to metastases in 22 patients. Eight were first seen because of fever or general weakness. Vascular disturbances in six included hypertension, thrombophlebitis, inferior vena caval obstruction and varicocele. Four patients had gastrointestinal complaints; one had hypercalcemia and another musculoskeletal symptoms. Two cases had neurological syndromes, one of which proved to be due to metastases. The overall incidence of systemic features was greater and included anemia, eosinophilia, a leukemoid reaction and thrombocytosis. Polycythemia, amyloidosis and hyponatremia were not encountered. Urographic procedures were performed in half of the patients, most of whom had an abdominal mass. Calcium was visible radiologically in the tumour in five cases. The diagnosis was not made in 19 and was an unexpected finding at autopsy in Appreciation of the extrarenal manifestations of hypernephroma might lead to earlier diagnosis.
In one colony of Wistar albino rats 23% were resistant to dextran and to egg-white, these animals (non-reactors) failing to show an anaphylactoid reaction after the intraperitoneal or intravenous injection of either of the two substances. Non-reactors were also found in a few other colonies of Wistar rats but not in colonies of other strains. Procedures which potentiated the anaphylactoid reaction in sensitive rats (reactors) did not alter the response of non-reactors. Dextran failed to release histamine from the perfused hind-quarters of non-reactors although other chemical liberators of histamine were effective. Lack of anaphylactoid reaction was not due to a deficiency of skin histamine or 5-hydroxytryptamine, and the blood sugar and serum protein levels of non-reactors were also normal. Non-reactors could be sensitized to antigens and their serum was antigenic to guinea-pigs. It is suggested that non-reactors lack a blood or tissue component with which dextran normally combines to produce an intermediate substance active in releasing amines.
The circular muscle strip is a new preparation for examining the action of drugs on the circular muscle of the guinea-pig isolated intestine. The preparation differed from the longitudinal muscle in that it was insensitive to drugs which act on autonomic effector tissues but, after inhibition of cholinesterase, it responded readily to choline esters, 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and nicotine. This behaviour necessitated the treatment of each strip with the anticholinesterase NN-diisopropylphosphodiamidic fluoride (mipafox) before each experiment. The contractions of the strip by 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and nicotine were abolished by procaine, botulinum toxin (Type A), morphine and hemicholinium, whilst the actions of acetylcholine and methacholine were unaffected. Contractions of the strip in response to each of the drugs were abolished by atropine and hyoscine. The action of nicotine was specifically antagonized by hexamethonium, that of 5-hydroxytryptamine by desensitization of the tissue to 5-hydroxytryptamine, and that of histamine either by desensitization of the tissue to histamine or by mepyramine. It is postulated that 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and nicotine stimulate specific receptor sites within the intramural nerve plexuses of the guinea-pig isolated ileum. Finally, botulinum toxin (Type A), morphine or hemicholinum, acting on the neuronal elements of the intramural plexuses, depressed the contractions of the circular muscle strip due to histamine or nicotine more readily than those due to 5-hydroxytryptamine.
The excretion of pethidine and its metabolite norpethidine is increased in acid urine and decreased in alkaline urine. Excretion of these two bases is the main route of removal of pethidine from the body if the urine is highly acid. If the urine is alkaline, excretion of the hydrolysis products meperidinic and normeperidinic acids, both as free acids and as conjugates, is the more important means of elimination of the drug. Acidification of the urine with ammonium chloride is indicated in the therapy of cases of pethidine poisoning in patients with reduced metabolic breakdown of the drug by the microsomal enzyme systems within liver cells. Reversed-phase chromatography of the dinitrophenyl derivative of norpethidine may prove to be of forensic importance in the diagnosis of pethidine poisoning or of pethidine addiction. Norpethidine can be detected in the urine by this method for at least 3 days after the last dose of pethidine. Analytical sensitivity is increased by acidification of the urine which produces a temporary rise of the excretion rate.
Some metabolic aspects of seromucoids in inflammation were elucidated by the use of oxyphenbutazone (OPB), a potent anti-inflammatory drug whose mode of action is fundamentally different from that of corticosteroids. Inflammation was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of 3 ml. of 1% formaldehyde. This resulted in an immediate and remarkable increase in the plasma seromucoid level, which persisted for 23 days. The subcutaneous injection of OPB (100 mg./kg.), six hours after formal-dehyde treatment, significantly lowered plasma seromucoids. The decrease was more pronounced when the same dosage of OPB was administered 24 hours before formal-dehyde injection. However, no effects were detected with single or repeated injections of OPB in a dosage of 50 mg./kg. Furthermore, the plasma seromucoid levels of normal rats were uninfluenced by OPB. From these results, it was postulated that some mediating or stimulating factor was released at the site of injury that was responsible for the increased synthesis of seromucoids and that was inhibited by OPB. The lowering effect of OPB was in contrast to the action of ACTH and cortisone, which latter do not alter the increased plasma level of seromucoids. These results further confirm that plasma seromucoid regulation is independent of the pituitary-adrenal mechanism.
The dermal melanocyte system of the Syrian hamster is particularly responsive to the melanogenetic and tumor-inducing effects of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA). The melanocytes of the hair follicles appear to be susceptible to the melanogenetic effect of DMBA but not to its tumor-inducing effect. The epidermal melanocytes are non-pigmented and are unresponsive to both melanogenetic and carcinogenic effects of DMBA. The pigmented granules of the dermal melanocytes of both the golden and the white hamster have an identical substructure and pattern of melanization which occurs in an orderly fashion on a delicate fibrillar component. The hair melanocytes have larger pigment granules with a more complicated fibrillar substructure. The epidermal melanocytes do not possess pigment granules but are recognized by their dendritic shape, the absence of desmosomes and tonofilaments, and the presence of racket-shaped or rod-shaped organelles. The melanin granules in neoplastic melanocytes of the golden hamster differ from corresponding normal melanocytes only in their larger size. In the white hamster, however, the melanin granules in tumors produced under identical experimental conditions are so bizarre and atypical that consideration was given to the possibility that a genetic difference in the melanization pattern between the two varieties becomes apparent in carcinogen-induced melanotic tumors. No definite conclusions could be reached as to the precise origin of the melanin granules in either normal or neoplastic melanocytes.
The gastric secretory response of dogs with fundal pouches to insulin hypoglycaemia is biphasic in character, the two secretory peaks being separated by some hours. The first response depends on the intact innervation of the pouch and is attributed to direct vagal action on the parietal cell. Experiments have been made to test the hypothesis that the second peak is due to activation of a pituitary adrenal mechanism.The second phasic response does not depend on the intact innervation of the pouch and does not coincide with the period of hypoglycaemia. No relationship has been established with the second phase and plasma cortisol levels nor is this peak abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy. The second acid secretory response, however, is only evident when acid secretion of the main stomach makes prolonged contact with the antral mucosa; it is abolished by antrectomy. The hypothesis is put forward that the pattern of response following insulin hypoglycaemia after the initial vagal response is attributable to an interaction of acid-inhibiting and acid-stimulating mechanisms of gastric acid secretion mediated through the gastric antrum.
In this review of current knowledge and research on the immunological responses in African trypanosomiasis, the author deals with the non-specific constitutional resistance of man and animals to trypanosomes; the results of research on specific adaptive immunity developed during and after illness and the demonstration of protective antibody; some promising results that have been achieved in attempts at vaccination; the effect of immunity on chemotherapy; the antigenic structure of trypanosome strains; the use of various serological tests in diagnosis and the application of immunochemistry to trypanosomiasis serology.In his conclusions, he suggests that more modern techniques should be used in serological investigations to solve the problem of the difference between cyclically and mechanically transmitted strains and that of relapse strains. It is also important to determine whether relapse strains are transmitted cyclically by flies without any antigenic change. Further studies are needed on the sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs of trypanosomes mechanically and cyclically transmitted. Finally, the author suggests that more research be conducted on various methods of immunization with killed and with living vaccines.
A simple high fat diet containing cholic acid has been devised for producing hyperlipemia and an increased incidence of thrombosis in the small coronary vessels of the rat, but without producing significant atherosclerotic lesions. The influence on this syndrome induced by six weeks of desoxycorticosterone administration, 2 mg. daily, and 10 weeks of oral saline (1%) ingestion was investigated in 30 115-g. male rats. Marked hypertension developed only when it was induced prior to beginning the dietary feeding. In comparison to the control groups, the group that was both hyperlipemic and hypertensive had severer hypertension, severer hyperlipemia, double the mortality due to thrombosis and fatty streaks in the aorta but very few lesions of periarteritis nodosa. However, the early atherosclerotic lesions did not seem to be responsible for the increased production of thrombosis. It is therefore probable that under these experimental conditions hypertension has a more direct action on the production of thrombotic effect than that of worsening the atherosclerotic lesions.
Patients showing red cell loss following severe burns have been considered in two groups, the more severe cases with late haemoglobinuria and the more numerous less severe cases without late haemoglobinuria. Patients who had late haemoglobinuria usually belonged to group A or AB, showed a normal or increased osmotic fragility of red cells, and had received more than three plasma volumes of pooled plasma. It is suggested that this haemolytic anaemia may have been caused by the anti-A isoagglutinins in pooled plasma or serum. Patients showing red cell loss but who had no late haemoglobinuria had a normal ABO group distribution and an increased osmotic resistance of their red cells. It is concluded that this more common type of red cell loss in burns is independent of transfused isoagglutinins. Isoantibodies present in pooled plasma have been investigated. Corresponding antibodies have been demonstrated in the serum of groups A and AB patients transfused with moderate quantities of pooled plasma. The same patients commonly also had a raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate, without there being a clinically important red cell loss.
The importance of triple coronary artery disease was evident in 125 patients undergoing internal mammary artery implantation, when some patients died from right coronary artery occlusion. This occurred even when the internal mammary artery was patent and revascularizing the left ventricle.In 1961 the free omental graft operation was developed to revascularize both right and left ventricles. In animals this operation has proved most effective in preventing death after application of Ameroid constrictors to all three coronary arteries. Arteriolar or larger-sized vessels rapidly formed between the aorta and omentum and the pericardium and omentum and the heart and omentum.Two patients with triple coronary artery disease underwent internal mammary artery implantation and free omental graft early in December Postoperative convalescence was uneventful. They have returned home and appear to be improved. Wrapping the entire heart with the free omental graft has produced little reaction, suggesting that, as in the animal, the grafts are surviving.
Volvulus of the intestine has recently been observed in three patients with idiopathic steatorrhea in relapse. Two patients gave a history of intermittent abdominal pain, distension and obstipation. Radiographic studies during these attacks revealed obstruction at the level of the sigmoid colon. Reduction under proctoscopic control was achieved in one instance, spontaneous resolution occurring in the other. The third patient presented as a surgical emergency and underwent operative reduction of a small intestinal volvulus. Persistence of diarrhea and weight loss postoperatively led to further investigation and a diagnosis of idiopathic steatorrhea. In all cases, treatment resulted in clinical remission with a coincident disappearance of obstructive intestinal symptoms. The pathogenesis of volvulus in sprue is poorly understood. Atonicity and dilatation of the bowel and stretching of the mesentery likely represent important factors. The symptoms of recurrent abdominal pain and distension in idiopathic steatorrhea necessitate an increased awareness of intestinal volvulus as a complication of this disease.
The relation between ammonia intoxication and liver disease is not clear. Ammonia appears to be relatively non-toxic to normal individuals, whereas some patients with liver disease appear to be exquisitely sensitive to dietary protein, ammonia-releasing substances, and ammonium salts. In an attempt to elucidate this relationship the intravenous LD(50) of ammonium chloride was determined in both normal mice and in those with liver disease produced by a variety of means. Parenchymal damage was created by acute and chronic carbon tetrachloride intoxication, a low-protein, lipotrope-deficient diet, and mouse hepatitis virus. Mice in which the portal vein had been partially ligated and those infected with Schistosoma mansoni developed portal-systemic collateral circulation. Groups of these mice were placed on high-protein diets and ammonia drinking water for periods as long as two months. A combination of both parenchymal damage and collateral circulation was induced in mice either by bile duct ligation or by a combination of schistosomiasis and acute carbon tetrachloride intoxication. When the above groups of mice with liver disease were compared with normal control mice in the same weight range, the LD(50) of ammonium chloride showed no striking change.
Diagnostic problems in trypanosomiasis arise from the inadequacy of current diagnostic procedures. This inadequacy deprives the clinician of essential data, hinders individual therapy and therapeutic control programmes, and makes suspect many conclusions drawn from previous experimental work. In this paper the author examines alternative methods of diagnosis, emphasizing cultivation and immunological procedures.An independent standard for diagnostic evaluation is available with the culture method. Comparison indicates that conventional procedures are frequently in error and that the error is always an underestimation, which may reach 20%-25% or more. The culture method has proved to be sensitive, reliable, usable under African field and hospital conditions, and applicable to isolation of Trypanosoma gambiense and T. rhodesiense from both blood and spinal fluid.Complement-fixation is the most widely used of the immunological reactions available. Procedures and results are reviewed and possibilities both with this method and others are discussed.Continuing research on diagnostic methods is needed, and certain practical difficulties in such a continuing research programme are discussed.
A "radioactive renogram" using o-iodohippurate sodium (Hippuran)-I(131) was performed in 57 patients who had either hypertension or various renal diseases. In longstanding essential hypertension, the initial uptake and secretory phases are often reduced below normal. In five hypertensive patients who were shown to have unilateral renal disease, the renogram showed significantly abnormal tracings on the affected side. In three patients suffering from ureteral obstruction, the excretory phase was significantly prolonged.On the basis of comparative albumin and iodohippurate renograms, the initial uptake can no longer be considered as a vascular phase, as previously believed.The iodohippurate-I(131) renogram is a useful adjunct in the investigation of hypertension and renal disease, providing information about each kidney not so readily obtained by other means. Nevertheless, the test does not supplant any other investigative procedure and should not be depended upon as a screening procedure.
Although the absolute febrile responses of trained individual rabbits injected intravenously with small to moderate doses of leucocytic pyrogen vary over an appreciable range, the relative responses of each rabbit to changes in dosage are satisfactorily reproducible. The quantitative dose-response relationship is characterized by a hyperthermic ceiling at which the intensity of the febrile reaction is relatively constant over a wide dosage range. Only at lower dose levels, where the dose-response curve is reasonably steep, is the magnitude of the fever produced proportional to the amount of pyrogen injected. When sufficiently large doses of LP are injected, the hyperthermic ceiling is exceeded. The fevers thus induced are biphasic in character and, in this way, resemble the usual response to bacterial endotoxin. Similar biphasic fevers result from continuous infusions of relatively low concentrations of LP at a constant rate. Repeated intermittent injections of moderate doses of LP likewise cause prolonged biphasic fevers, but, once the fever has become established, the reaction to each individual injection becomes markedly depressed. When large doses of LP are injected at daily intervals, the characteristic biphasic response occurs only following the first injection. Thereafter a state of tolerance intervenes in which the late secondary rise in temperature fails to occur. This form of tolerance lasts as long as the daily injections are continued but subsides within a few days after the injections are stopped. During the transient tolerance the rabbit's responsiveness to small doses of LP (in the sensitive range of the dose response curve) is depressed. In addition, the amount of endogenous pyrogen mobilized from the tissues by a large dose of LP is not as great as that generated in a normal rabbit. The relations of these findings to biphasic fevers, tolerance, and the accuracy of the conventional method of pyrogen assay are briefly discussed.
A test of pituitary reserve was used in the investigation of 14 children with retarded growth and 15 adults with endocrine disorders. Mepyrapone (Metopiron), 500 mg. every four hours, was administered orally for 48 hours. The pituitary response was determined by the amount of 17-hydroxycorticosteroid in a 24-hour urine sample (by a modification by Peterson of the Porter-Silber method). Pituitary reserve was decreased in four patients who were pituitary dwarfs, one who had retarded growth, two patients with Sheehan's syndrome, three with pituitary tumours, one who had panhypopituitarism without a tumour, and one case of limited adrenal reserve (confirmed by a negative response to ACTH stimulation). The pituitary reserve was normal in three patients with gonadal dysgenesis, three who exhibited retarded growth, one case of diabetes insipidus, one cretin, one patient treated by steroids, three with psychogenic amenorrhea, and five normal controls. It is concluded that this test of pituitary reserve is useful in the assessment of children with growth retardation and in establishing the diagnosis of pituitary insufficiency in adults.
Aspergilli are widely distributed in nature and there is abundant opportunity to acquire infection. The fungus is usually only locally invasive in healthy tissues. Its culture from sputum on one occasion may have no significance. Its growth in the bronchial tree of asthmatics may produce sensitization with aggravation of the asthma and bronchial plugging. Multiplication in dead or damaged lung tissue such as infarcts is not uncommon. The fungus may also colonize pre-existing lung cavities, especially those remaining after treatment of tuberculosis. The ball of fungus produces a characteristic radiological picture, particularly on tomograms, which is usually sufficient to make the diagnosis. Hemoptysis is common. Inaction may be preferable to excision, especially in a patient with impaired lung function. Seven cases have been described to illustrate some of the features and natural history of the condition. The mounting number of sterile cavities left in lungs has increased the number of mycetomas which have developed.
Carcinoid tumors are diminutive growths found along the gastrointestinal tract, in the lungs and, occasionally, within the confines of teratomas. Carcinoid tumors of the intestinal tract are found in decreasing order of frequency in the rectum, the appendix, the ileum, the jejunum, the lung, the stomach and the duodenum. Arising from argentaffin elements in the crypts of Lieberkuehn, and secreting serotonin, carcinoid tumors belong to the order of functioning neoplasms. Their indolent growth seems to place them between benign neoplasms and carcinomas. However, they possess propensities for metastasis that correlate with increase in size. The symptoms that are produced are almost always due to the presence of metastatic lesions. In ileal and gastric carcinoid tumors, the tendency to metastasis is augmented and the metastatic masses are sometimes of sufficient bulk to cause the carcinoid syndrome or to interfere with the supply of blood to the affected segment. More often they produce the clinical picture of intestinal obstruction. The unusually long interval from onset to death associated with carcinoid tumors makes palliative subtotal resections and short-circuiting operations in symptomatic patients with advanced disease worthwhile, for by such unorthodox procedures the patients may be afforded many additional years of useful life.
The capacity of blood platelets to attach themselves aspecifically to antigen-antibody complexes in the presence of complement can be utilized for the demonstration of antibodies formed against homologous tissues.A mixture of the serum-, antigen-complement, and of human thrombocytes is incubated, and the number of thrombocytes in the supernatant is ascertained and referred to a standard. Measurements less than 85% of the standard are regarded as positive. Sera collected from patients with ;protracted' acute or chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were found to be positive with the new method in 68.0% of the cases; the corresponding figures were 26.3% for ;non-protracted' acute hepatitis and 18.1% for diseases of the bile duct. No positive reaction occurred in other internal diseases studied or in healthy persons, but 40% of subjects with diverse infections gave positive results possibly because of autoantibody formation against tissues damaged by the infections. Comparative examinations suggest that the thrombocyte consumption test is more specific than the antihuman globulin consumption method.
The use of ionizing radiation and corticosteroids is discussed, in this third and final part of a review of diseases of the skin. Radiation is being used less extensively because superior methods of treatment are available for many conditions which formerly were frequently treated by this modality. The concept of applying the radiation at the level of the basic pathologic process has been developed into clinical practice by the use of generators which can produce very soft (or superficial) ionizing radiation. Topical or systemic corticosteroids do not cure skin diseases but produce dramatic suppression of signs and symptoms. For best results consideration must be given to the diagnosis, the natural history of the disease to be treated, the method of administration and a search for possible contraindications to the use of these steroids. Basic dermatological principles (removal of offending agents, bland soothing applications, sedation, etc.) must be adhered to. The corticosteroids are not a panacea in the treatment of skin disease.
Although regional enteritis classically involves the terminal ileum, lesions showing similar histology may involve other segments of the gastrointestinal tract, either independently or concomitantly with terminal ileum involvement. Histologically the basic reaction is non-specific chronic inflammation with a granulomatous component and a variable degree of fibrosis. Such lesions in the upper gastrointestinal tract resulted in nonspecific intestinal complaints and roentgenographically showed mucosal alterations and loss of normal motility. Those with colonic involvement were difficult to differentiate from ulcerative colitis, clinically and, in the early stages, roentgenographically. With more advanced involvement, roentgenographical diagnosis was possible.Three patients with lesions illustrating the aforementioned features were diagnosed and treated. One had lesions in the colon and terminal ileum. In the others the terminal ileum was not involved; in the second the stomach, duodenum and upper jejunum were involved, and in the third the colon was involved.
Synchronized electrical countershock is an intriguing new method for the treatment of ectopic tachycardias. The authors applied this treatment to 20 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation and, in 17 patients, sinus rhythm was restored immediately. An additional four patients with atrial flutter were successfully converted to sinus rhythm. One patient developed a hemiplegia two weeks after cardioversion. No other untoward side effects were observed. In two patients with ventricular fibrillation electrical countershock terminated the arrhythmia. After successful cardioversion of atrial fibrillation, a maintenance dose of quinidine is given to help maintain sinus rhythm. In spite of this precaution, one-half of the patients reverted to atrial fibrillation within a month. The quinidine was administered for two to three days in advance of cardioversion; on this regimen, 10 of 34 patients reverted to sinus rhythm on quinidine alone and did not require countershock. The exact place of this treatment of cardiac arrhythmias has not yet been clearly defined.
Some clinical and pathological features of carcinomatosis of the meninges are reviewed along with a report of four cases. This condition usually presents in middle age as a subacute meningitis with cranial nerve involvement, but the diagnostic importance of the various mental disturbances which may be encountered early in its course are noted. The acute or subacute course may reflect a widespread mechanical interference with normal cerebral metabolism, a notion which is supported by recent clinical measurements in these patients of the rate of glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier. It is probable that the route taken by tumour cells to reach the meningeal spaces is a relatively unimportant factor in determining this pattern of growth and that the intrinsic growth characteristics of the primary tumour, its nutritional needs, and gravity probably play the major roles in production of this unusual type of secondary invasion. Greater therapeutic use of irradiation for these patients is encouraged.
Diagnostic pneumomediastinography in a series of 675 cases revealed that thymic tumours accounted for 13% of all mediastinal neoplasms. In more than 50% of instances, thymic enlargement associated with myasthenia gravis was not apparent on ordinary frontal or lateral tomograms prior to the injection of air. In this procedure 500 to 600 c.c. of air is injected into the anterior mediastinal space by the supra- and retro-sternal (or suband retro-xiphoid) route. One hour later, tomography is performed at appropriate angles and levels. Diagnostic pneumomediastinography is well tolerated, even by myasthenic patients. It is valuable in the positive and differential diagnosis of mediastinal disease and is especially useful in the detection of abnormal thymic shadows.Typically, benign enlargements of the thymus appear as comma- or banana-shaped retrosternal shadows of moderate density, separated from the breastbone and from the cardiovascular opacity. The significance of the presence of a notch visualized between the heart and the tumour is emphasized. An irregular shadow, a poor gaseous contrast, suggesting a locally invasive lesion, and adhesions usually are indicative of malignancy.
The presenting manifestations of polycythemia vera are often complications involving the vascular system. These include myocardial infarction, cerebro-vascular accidents and ischemic changes in the extremities.The concept of increased atherogenesis in cases of polycythemia vera has been questioned. A possible mechanism by which small, otherwise subclinical atheromatous plaques produce ischemic symptoms in patients with polycythemia vera is discussed. The blood in polycythemic patients has been shown to have an increased viscosity resulting in a prolonged circulation time. If a small atheromatous plaque is present in association with increased blood viscosity, this combination may well produce ischemic symptoms. This explains why treatment of polycythemia vera, with restoration of blood to normal viscosity, often reverses the patient's ischemic symptoms. Two cases of polycythemia vera here reported, in which the presenting manifestations were gangrenous extremities, emphasize the need for prompt diagnosis and treatment of polycythemia vera. In the first case, early recognition and treatment of polycythemia vera successfully reversed the ischemic changes in the extremities, while failure of early recognition and treatment in the second case resulted in two major amputations.
According to a recently reported study, anticoagulant therapy appears to be ineffective in thrombotic cerebrovascular disease when viewed from the standpoint of mortality, although it does control thrombosis in animals, recurrent ischemic attacks and progression of infarction in patients with stuttering strokes. The efficacy of anticoagulant therapy in preventing a catastrophic stroke is analyzed in the present report. Of 92 untreated patients followed up for an average period of 36 months, 28 suffered a recurrent stroke, only two of these being trivial. One trivial and 12 catastrophic strokes occurred in the first 16 months. Of 103 patients treated with anticoagulants for an average period of 16 months, seven had recurrent strokes, but five of these were trivial. In the first 16 months one catastrophic and four trivial strokes occurred. Anticoagulant therapy appears to be useful in preventing catastrophic strokes in selected patients in whom the risk of recurrent strokes justifies the risks involved in this treatment.
The immediate good results of endarterectomy and vascular grafting have pushed sympathectomy into the background as a form of treatment for peripheral obliterative arterial diseases. There are, however, many instances in which the nature of the arterial disease prevents performance of direct arterial surgery. In these cases an increase in circulation to the skin may not only relieve pain and heal ulcers but also, not infrequently, save the limb from amputation or permit a minor rather than a major amputation.A consecutive group of 90 lumbar and cervicodorsal sympathectomies was reviewed. The majority of patients suffered from atherosclerosis; smaller numbers had Buerger's or Raynaud's disease. The assessment of patients, selection for surgery, technique of operation, its complications and early results are discussed. There was one death in this series of patients who ranged in age from 17 to 81 years. This study indicates that, although sympathectomy is not a panacea for obliterative arterial disease, neither is it an obsolete procedure.
The administration of heparin during the first 48 hours following acute myocardial infarction is widely practised. Heparin treatment is also recommended for acute coronary insufficiency on the grounds that it may prevent development of an impending myocardial infarction. These measures had been accepted without support of a controlled clinical trial. By random selection, 101 patients hospitalized with a provisional diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction received heparin (100 mg. intravenously every eight hours for 48 hours) and 105 patients were assigned to a control group. Both groups of patients received bishydroxycoumarin (Dicumarol). The mortality in the heparin series was 30% and in the control group, 28%. A significantly large number of the heparin-treated patients developed clinical and laboratory proof of recent myocardial infarction. It is concluded that early intermittent intravenous heparin treatment does not lower the mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction nor does it prevent impending myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary insufficiency.
Korsakoff's syndrome of obscure etiology was observed in a 34-year-old single woman with an 11-year history of hirsutism and mood swings, and previous hospitalizations for mania three years ago and depression 11 years ago.Recently the virilism had intensified with increased muscularity and coarsening of facial features. The 24-hour urinary 17-ketosteroids ranged between 14.4 mg. and 21.5 mg. and were suppressed by dexamethasone. The 17-hydroxycorticosteroid excretion was normal. These and other findings suggested a diagnosis of adrenal virilism due to adrenocortical hyperplasia. In the absence of other discernible causes it appeared that the adrenal pathology was responsible for the Korsakoff's syndrome. Both conditions responded well to glucocorticoid therapy although low doses were necessary to avoid mania.It is speculated that the encephalopathy was due to an associated adrenal insufficiency. Although hypoadrenalism is accepted as a complication of only the infant form of adrenal virilism, it is noteworthy that this patient had pathological pigmentation of her skin.
Esophagitis caused by the reflux of acid gastric juices through an incompetent sphincter at the junction of the esophagus with the stomach is now recognized as a common cause of upper abdominal and thoracic symptoms frequently simulating heart, stomach or gallbladder disease. While these symptoms are occasionally mild and transient, under certain circumstances permanent, irreversible and seriously disabling changes may occur in the lower esophagus. The usual cause is a sliding hiatal hernia. Although mild symptoms can often be relieved by simple means, advanced disease may require a major surgical procedure to relieve scar tissue stricture of the esophagus which may eventuate and permanently disturb the swallowing mechanism. Hiatal hernia causing displacement of the cardioesophageal junction, the most common cause of esophagitis, can be corrected either by transabdominal or transthoracic surgical procedures directed toward reduction of the hernia. Fixation of the stomach to the abdominal wall in a position of downward traction has been used as a simple and successful means of correcting the hernia.
Toxicity tests with lyophilized M. aeruginosa NRC-1 cells have been conducted using mice, guinea pigs, rabbits, chickens, ducks, two calves and one lamb as the test animals. The symptoms and pathological changes are described. On an equivalent weight basis it required three to five times the oral dosage to kill the large animals and birds as it did to kill the laboratory animals. The symptoms were less pronounced and the survival times were longer in the more resistant animals. Enlargement and congestion of the liver with necrosis of the hepatic cells were constant and pathognomonic. These findings are in general agreement with the observations of other workers who have examined the toxicity of naturally occurring Microcystis waterblooms. The toxicities and structures of microcystin and of six other biologically active cyclic polypeptides are summarized. The pathological effects produced by microcystin in laboratory and domestic animals resemble those produced in man but differ from those produced in animals by the toxic peptides of Amanita phalloides.
Sultzer, Barnet M. (Princeton Laboratories, Inc., Princeton, N.J.), and Henry H. Freedman. Endotoxin-induced susceptibility to staphylococcal infection and its reversal by adrenergic blocking agents. J. Bacteriol. 90:1001-1006. 1965.-The transient phase of increased susceptibility to bacterial infection in mice provoked by prior administration of small doses of endotoxin was investigated for possible mediation by vasoactive substances. Animals were given endotoxin intravenously shortly before intraperitoneal injection of Staphylococcus aureus Smith, thereby lowering the lethal inoculum 10-fold. To determine whether this susceptibility state could be obviated, mice were pretreated with phenoxybenzamine or dibenzylchlorethylamine. Mortality decreased from an average of 81% in the endotoxin control groups to about 23% in the treated mice, closely approximating the mortality in control mice injected with saline and staphylococci. Neither antiadrenergic agent independently altered the resistance of mice to a higher lethal staphylococcal challenge, nor did these materials induce extravascular leukocyte mobilization into the peritoneal cavity. The results suggest a possible role of vasoactive staphylococcal alpha-toxin, as well as epinephrine or epinephrine-like factors, in this altered state of resistance to staphylococcal infection.
Experimental investigations have been carried out in 32 children on the therapeutic effect of griseofulvin in favus caused by Trichophyton schoenleinii and to determine the optimal treatment schedule.It was found that, while daily doses of 3.12 mg, 6.25 mg or 12.50 mg griseofulvin per kg of body-weight did bring about a measurable degree of inhibition of the fungal hyphae in infected hairs, a dose of 25 mg/kg daily for some 28 days was required to effect complete cure. The advantages of greater daily doses (50 mg/kg) were not sufficiently pronounced to justify the extra cost involved. Administration of doses under 50 mg/kg on alternate days is unsatisfactory, as it allows for the re-establishment of the hyphae in newly formed keratin.Another favourable schedule is the administration of 50 mg/kg daily for five days, thus setting up a stable and impenetrable griseofulvin barrier, followed for about 28 days by daily doses of 6.25 mg/kg that would otherwise be subtherapeutic but in this case prevent the reintroduction of infection from extrapilar fungi.
In view of evidence suggesting that 1.2 mega-units of "all-purpose" penicillin (300 000 IU potassium penicillin G, 300 000 IU procaine penicillin G and 600 000 IU benzathine penicillin) did not maintain treponemicidal serum concentrations during the week following injection-which if true, might necessitate a reappraisal of prophylactic and treatment schedules in wide use against syphilis-daily assays were performed to determine the penicillinaemia levels in ambulant adult males for one week following intramuscular injection with this dosage of two "all-purpose" products (168 assays in all, 24 each day).Statistical evaluation of the results showed that the mean daily serum concentrations were, in fact, treponemicidal during the whole week after injection. The means of groups of 24 assays fell within narrow daily ranges on each of the seven post-injection days, suggesting that the long-acting component (benzathine penicillin) gives reliable and predictable daily levels in a high proportion of cases. This is in contrast to those penicillins which rely for their long-acting property on the oily gel in which they are suspended. On the other hand, the extremes of penicillinaemia for any individual in a large group were shown to cover a very wide range, demonstrating that a particular patient's failure to respond to standard treatment or prophylaxis can be due to factors quite unrelated to the quality or specificity of the product or to the sensitivity of the organism causing disease.
The treatment of bilharziasis with antimonials has been carried out in the past in a rather arbitrary manner, dosage levels and schedules varying widely and being based on little valid experimental evidence. The author has therefore attempted to determine the optimum dosage intervals with tartar emetic for cure of mice experimentally infected with Schistosoma mansoni.It was already known that schistosomes are swept back into the liver when their level of antimony reaches a certain threshold but that, once that level drops, they re-migrate back to the mesenteric veins. In this work, therefore, the schedule of treatment was arranged so as to relate the intervals between doses to the re-migration of worms to the mesentery. It is shown that there is probably a direct relationship between the number of doses and the total period of time during which the schistosomes can be kept in the liver, so that relatively few doses given at short intervals may be as effective as a larger number of doses at longer intervals.
Two patients with disseminated histoplasmosis are reported. One patient presented with severe thrombocytopenic purpura and splenomegaly. Histoplasmin skin test, blood and bone marrow cultures and smears, sputum cultures, and chest radiographs were negative for Histoplasma capsulatum. She died on the sixth hospital day from a massive intracerebral hemorrhage. Cardiorespiratory function was maintained until one kidney was removed for homotransplantation. The second patient, with chronic glomerulonephritis and uremia, received the renal homograft from the first patient. Initial signs of homograft rejection developed five days postoperatively. Diffuse thrombocytopenic purpura occurred shortly thereafter. Spores of Histoplasma capsulatum were observed in blood smears, in leukocyte concentrates, and in five-day leukocyte cultures from the blood obtained prior to death. Disseminated histoplasmosis was found in both patients at autopsy. The severe platelet deficit in both cases suggests that systemic histoplasmosis should be considered as a cause of thrombocytopenic purpura.To our knowledge, this is the first reported instance of direct transmission of Histoplasma capsulatum, and must be considered a hazard in homotransplantation.In vitro leukocyte cultures as a method for early diagnosis of certain disseminated fungous infections needs further investigation.
The antibiotic treatment of staphylococcal infections remains a problem. Isolation of the organism and sensitivity testing are necessary in the choice of antibiotic. Penicillin G is the most effective penicillin against non-penicillinase-producing staphy-lococci; for the penicillinase producers there is very little to choose between the semisynthetic penicillins, methicillin, cloxacillin, nafcillin and oxacillin. For patients who are hypersensitive to penicillin, the bacteriostatic drugs (erythromycin, novobiocin, tetracycline, chloramphenicol, oleandomycin) are useful for mild infections, while for more severe illness the bactericidal drugs (vancomycin, ristocetin, kanamycin, bacitracin, neomycin) have been used successfully. Acute staphylococcal enterocolitis is probably best treated by a semisynthetic penicillin. Other antibiotics which have been found useful, with clinical trials, for staphylococcal infections are cephalosporin, fucidin, cephaloridine and lincomycin. The latter drug has been reported of value in the treatment of osteomyelitis. There is little justification for the prophylactic use of antibiotics to prevent staphylococcal infection. Surgical drainage is still an important adjunct in the treatment of many staphylococcal infections.
Eleven autopsied cases of bronchiolar emphysema are reported. In all, both lungs were involved. Their pleural surfaces were finely bosselated, presenting an appearance resembling that of the liver in Laennec's cirrhosis. The lungs were firm, they cut with increased fibrous resistance, and the cut surfaces were honeycombed with cysts.Microscopically, the cysts originated in terminal bronchioles. Their walls were thickened with fibrous tissue, elastic fibres and prominent smooth muscle. Areas of lung parenchyma were replaced by fibrous tissue rich in elastic fibres.The etiology of this disease is unknown. Inherent weakness of the myoelastic wall of the respiratory bronchiole, hypoplasia of the distal segment of the respiratory unit, and superimposed recurrent respiratory infections probably are essential in its pathogenesis. The pulmonary changes cause interference with hemorespiratory gaseous exchange.Death was due to respiratory failure in seven cases, to cardiac failure in three and to superimposed staphylococcal pneumonia in one.
The clinical, pathological, and chemical findings in a fatal case of generalized Hand-Schüller-Christian disease in a man of 33 years are presented in case The necropsy examination revealed granulomatous infiltration of the infra-orbital fat, the pituitary stalk, and the posterior lobe of the pituitary and also of the skull bones and the thyroid cartilage. The spinal dura mater contained multiple xanthomatous deposits which had produced degenerative changes in the cord substance by epidural compression. Interesting features were the tumour-like enlargement of the right heart, massive pancreatic and renal infiltration, also heavy constricting xanthomatous mantles which had produced compression of both kidneys and adrenal glands. Case 2 is an example of xanthomatous granuloma, confined to the lungs, in a man of 57 years, and not associated with diabetes insipidus. The histological appearances were those of long-standing chronic xanthoma with marked cystic changes in the lungs, dilated bronchioles, and thick-walled stenosed pulmonary arteries. The pathogenesis of Hand-Schüller-Christian disease is briefly discussed.
An investigation has been made of the changes occurring in lysosomal enzyme activities during the early development of experimentally produced liver injury in the rat. Three enzymes have been studied: acid phosphatase, acid ribonuclease and beta-glucuronidase. Four different methods of inducing liver injury have been used: administration of carbon tetrachloride, thioacetamide, dimethylnitrosamine and the fungal toxin sporidesmin. The majority of the data presented concern alterations produced by carbon tetrachloride. Despite the extensive central necrosis and accompanying fat accumulation which this poison produced in the liver, only small changes in the activity and latency of lysosomal enzymes could be detected. In the early (pre-necrotic) period of injury these changes were insignificant. At a late stage of injury, when extensive centrilobular necrosis was present, there were indications of lysosomal rupture. The results obtained with the other three hepatotoxins were similar to those described for carbon tetrachloride in that no evidence of early lysosomal rupture was obtained during the pre-necrotic period. It is concluded that lysosomes probably play no role in the early development of the four types of liver injury studied but, instead, are involved in later scavenging processes.
Forty-three cases of regional enteritis of the duodenum were found in the world literature. Regional duodenitis is relatively uncommon; in one large series of 600 cases of regional enteritis only three involved the duodenum.At the University of Alberta Hospital, in a three-year period (1962 to 1965), the authors encountered five patients with regional duodenitis, demonstrating a spectrum of clinical, radiologic and pathologic characteristics of this disease. The description of these patients brings the world's total to 48 reported cases.Two of these patients had symptoms of severe duodenal obstruction and were relieved by bypass procedures and vagotomy; one required surgery because of co-existent obstructive ileal disease: and two patients have improved on corticoids and salicylazosulfapyridine without surgery.In our experience treatment with corticoids and salicylazosulfapyridine is beneficial.Four of the five patients remain in a state of mild to moderate nutritional impairment and have evidence of intestinal malabsorption. In the fifth case the period of followup is too short to permit assessment.
Eighty patients with carcinoma of the lung have been treated at the Nova Scotia Sanatorium since 1940; in 15, coexisting active pulmonary tuberculosis was present. No characteristic clinical or roentgenological findings indicated that the tuberculous individual also had lung cancer. In four cases cancer was not diagnosed until the lung was examined by the pathologist. In the others a considerable interval elapsed before carcinoma was suspected.Only four patients with known cancer were considered suitable for thoracotomy. In three, an attempt at curative resection was made. One survived over seven years before accidental death; one is alive less than one year after operation; the third died as a result of the surgery. Bronchogenic carcinoma should be suspected in every tuberculous patient over the age of 50; diagnostic investigations should include bronchoscopy and cytological studies of bronchial secretion and sputum. Suspicion of carcinoma in any such patient constitutes an indication for early resection of the tuberculous disease.
Closed drainage is recommended for all patients after prostatectomy where hemostasis has been adequate. Although closed drainage can maintain sterility of the bladder, thereby fostering healing and reducing infectious complications, such drainage is not insisted upon at most hospitals because of the inconveniences associated with it. However, when closed drainage was used in 25 consecutive cases of transurethral resection, infection was reduced to 25 per cent (in contrast to the 85 to 100 per cent encountered with open drainage). The ideal closed system should incorporate:1. Fixed tubing to prevent contamination where the catheter joins the tubing and where the tubing is attached to the container;2. An aseptic method of emptying;3. A device to prevent reflux of the potentially contaminated urine in the container into the bladder;4. Free urinary flow from bladder to container; and5. Portability for the patient and convenience for the staff.A system is proposed that incorporates these features. Particularly effective are a fixed drip chamber with vents at the site of attachment of the tubing to the bag and a protected spigot for emptying.
The three major groups of immunoglobulins (gamma G, gamma A, and gamma M) associated with this disease are reviewed. The presence or absence of atopic disease may account for percentage variability of gamma A because reagins (skin-sensitizing antibodies) are found in this immunoglobulin. The gamma A is the antibody usually responsible for anaphylaxis, rather than the gamma G precipitins, so stressed in the past. All three immunoglobulins may be found in serum sickness, which could account for the complex nature of this type of penicillin urticaria. The merits of the immunological tests (penicilloyl-polylysine, benzyl penicillin, hemagglutination, basophil degranulation) for the detection of penicillin sensitivity are analyzed, particularly as each applies to the various types of penicillin urticaria (serum sickness, anaphylactic, dermographic, delayed dermographic, and simple chronic urticaria and the lupus diathesis). The penicilloyl-polylysine test is greatly overrated as a means of predicting possible anaphylaxis. The benzyl penicillin skin test properly performed is an excellent means of indicating this.
The data derived from these three young patients would indicate the need for: Early recognition of the primary cutaneous skin infection as being due to Coccidioides immitis. The prompt use of suppressive intravenous amphotericin B therapy until such time as local tissue resistance and systemic immunity become manifest and sufficient to contain the pathogenic fungus within the initial cutaneous site of infection as manifested by complete healing of this primary lesion and its associated lymphadenopathy. It is apparent that there is a need to reassess present concepts which have been based on insufficient data, and to revise conclusions derived from the study of the eight previously reported instances of primary cutaneous coccidioidomycosis. The traumatic cutaneous inoculation of C immitis into a previously uninfected person, contrary to earlier impressions, can result not only in prolonged illness but in serious dissemination of the disease, and in one reported instance has resulted in coccidioidal meningitis.
An evaluation of fluocinolone acetonide applied topically in the treatment of discoid lupus erythematosus is presented. Bilateral comparison of 0.025% fluocinolone acetonide cream to the cream base alone demonstrated the effectiveness of this program. In 59 patients an attempt was made to control this disease with topical fluocinolone acetonide as their only treatment. Forty three patients could be controlled in this fashion. Eleven patients responded partially, but for optimal response required a systemic supplement. Five patients did not show any improvement following topical fluocinolone acetonide applications. Noteworthy, is a group of 37 patients followed through two summer seasons. Twenty-four of these patients could be controlled with topical applications but reapplication the following summer was required. Three patients in this group cleared and remained clear. Six patients followed through two summers required a systemic supplement, while four in this group did not respond to therapy.
The differential ferrioxamine test is a simple method for the measurement of chelation of body iron by desferrioxamine. A single six-hour specimen of urine is obtained after intravenous Desferal, accompanied by (59)Fe-ferrioxamine. Two values are measured: F(d), the excretion of ferrioxamine derived from body iron by chelation, and F(ex), the proportion of ferrioxamine excreted from a known intravenous dose. The data enables F(v), chelation of iron in vivo, to be calculated by simple proportion. Desferrioxamine chelation proceeds for about half an hour after injection. The results in normal subjects, in cases with known high iron stores, and in cases of iron-deficiency anaemia are described. High, normal, and low body iron states have been differentiated. F(v) values in the higher ranges obtained in iron-storage diseases and in haemolytic states are differentiated by the pattern of excretion, high F(d) values and low F(ex) values respectively. IT IS SUGGESTED THAT THERE ARE TWO MAIN SOURCES OF CHELATABLE BODY IRON: as ferritin-haemosiderin and as iron newly released from haem in a more readily chelatable form. The significance of variable chelation susceptibility in iron metabolism is briefly discussed. It is suggested that variable chelatability of different sources of body iron may explain the preferential utilization of iron released from red cells or absorbed from the intestine, rather than storage iron, in the biosynthesis of haem.
In four persons of one family the existence of an enzymatic defect, presumably consisting of a deficiency of glutaminase in the cells of the renal tubules, is postulated, and is implied by a reduced elimination of ammonia in the urine, by a relatively low urinary pH, and by its increased titratable acidity. The most characteristic clinical symptom is irritation of the distal part of the urinary tract, connected with numerous crystals of uric acid appearing in the urinary sediment. The elimination of uric acid is normal, or even reduced, and the level of uric acid in the blood serum is also within normal limits. After the administration of glutaminic acid elimination of ammonia is further decreased and the quantity of uric acid crystals is increased. Loading with glutaminic acid may also cause an attack of renal pain in the individual suffering from this defect but the administration of ammonium chloride does not cause any increase in ammonia production. It seems probable that the enzymatic defect is connected with the presence of antigen B in the erythrocytes and that it is inherited as a dominant autosomal feature. A suitable diet to make the urine alkaline allows kidneys to function efficiently in individuals suffering from this defect.
Early recognition of limb ischemia may allow prompt, effective therapy for peripheral arterial injuries. A review of cases of peripheral arterial trauma at the Toronto General Hospital since 1953 revealed that 50% of the injuries were not immediately recognized. An expanding hematoma, pulsatile hemorrhage or the onset of a bruit and thrill signifies arterial damage in penetrating wounds. Ischemia may be difficult to recognize in patients with soft tissue or skeletal trauma, but the presence of distal pallor, coolness, paresis, cyanosis, anesthesia, poor capillary refill and disproportionate pain indicates significant arterial damage and necessitates surgical exploration. The diagnosis of arterial "spasm" in such instances is untenable and can only be made after direct inspection, or on the return of pulses after reduction of a fracture or release of a tight cast. Restoration of arterial continuity by end-to-end anastomosis is the recommended technique for all arterial injuries, since after ligation of even minor vessels, ischemia may ensue, and amputation may occasionally be necessary.
In six cases of hyperthyroidism and two of chronic thyroiditis herein described, the initial features of the diseases were misinterpreted as attributable to other kinds of illness such as myocardial infarction, gastrointestinal malignant disease, malabsorption syndrome, psychosis, simple exophthalmos and endemic goiter. The characteristic signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism (in six patients) and chronic thyroiditis (in two patients) were present at the outset but were not identified. Intensive questioning and alertness were required to elicit these characteristics. The symptoms improved or disappeared after the true disease was controlled. In the studies of these cases, the usefulness of a number of laboratory tests was illustrated-thyroid suppression studies, 4 to 6-hour and 24-hour radioactive iodine uptake, T(3) uptake by the red cells and determinations of 24-hour urine creatine, antithyroglobulin antibody titer and long-acting thyroid stimulating hormone.The manifestations of thyroid diseases are many and varied. The term "masked hyperthyroidism" may in part be a reflection of the "masked physician" unless he uses his clinical detective abilities.
During clinical trials of intralymphatic therapy with radioiodinated ethiodized oil (Lipiodol Ultra-Fluid; Ethiodol) [LUF-I(131)] for malignant disease involving lymph nodes, significant pulmonary deposition of radioactive material was demonstrated by thoracic scan in each of five cases treated. Radioactivity was detected in sputum obtained from two cases. Induced sputum specimens were subsequently obtained from patients undergoing lymphography. Fat demonstrated in sputum was confirmed as Lipiodol in one of six patients tested. Sputum examination and use of tracer doses of LUF-I(131) plus photoscanning are suggested as sensitive methods of assessing the incidence of oil deposition in the lungs of patients undergoing lymphography. Despite limitation of the volume of oil injected, monitoring of the infusion, and absence of radiographic evidence of contrast medium in the lungs, some degree of pulmonary oil deposition appears to be an inevitable result of lymphography. Further study of lung dosimetry is being undertaken by the authors before clinical usage of endolymphatic radioisotope therapy is expanded.
A father and son are described with a condition characterized by benign hypertension, potassium deficiency, increased aldosterone secretion rate (ASR), raised plasma volume and suppressed plasma renin activity (PRA). There were intermittent elevations of urine 17-ketosteroids and 17-hydroxycorticoids (17-OHCS) but no increase in urine THS, normal circadian rhythm of plasma 17-OHCS, and normal urine 17-OHCS response to dexamethasone and intravenous ACTH. Plasma ACTH and corticosterone secretion were not elevated. Pregnanetriol excretion was normal but urine pregnanediol was increased. At operation on the father no adrenal tumour was found; the excised left adrenal weighed 7 g. and showed nodular cortical hyperplasia; juxtaglomerular cells showed only occasional granules. Following operation hypertension persisted and ASR was half the preoperative value. All abnormalities in father and son were relieved by dexamethasone (DM) 2 mg. daily. The condition recurred following cessation of DM but was relieved by a second course of treatment. No such response to DM was seen in a normal subject or in a patient with Conn's syndrome. For a number of reasons it is suggested that patients with hypertension, increased ASR and low PRA be given a trial of dexamethasone treatment before undergoing adrenal surgery.
The concentrations of the nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotides in rat liver have been determined at intervals during the period 1-24hr. after feeding adult female rats with dimethylnitrosamine or thioacetamide. The administration of dimethylnitrosamine resulted in a rapid decrease in the sum of NAD+NADH(2). This sum was decreased by 40% 3hr. after dosing. Dimethylnitrosamine administration also produced an overall decrease in the NADP+NADPH(2) but this decrease was not so early nor as marked as that found for NAD+NADH(2). The changes produced by thioacetamide were quite different from those obtained with dimethylnitrosamine. Thioacetamide produced a temporary rise in the NAD+NADH(2) followed by a small fall. The NADP+NADPH(2) was little changed in the early hours after dosing with thioacetamide but had decreased by approx. 15% 18hr. after administration. These changes are discussed in terms of the known hepatotoxic actions of dimethylnitrosamine and thioacetamide, and are compared with previously reported changes found after the administration of carbon tetrachloride.
The effects of single doses of ethionine or sodium salicylate on the nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide content of rat liver have been studied. There was no significant change in the sum of NAD+NADH(2) during the early period (0-2hr.) of the liver injury induced by ethionine but there was a decrease in this value of approx. 30% by 4hr. after administration. Ethionine had no significant effect on the NADP+NADPH(2) during the first 2hr. period after administration. The sum then decreased to a value approx. 70% of the control by 3hr. after dosing but showed a partial recovery at the 4hr. period before decreasing again in later stages of the poisoning. Salicylate produced a very rapid decrease in the NADP+NADPH(2) in the liver after intraperitoneal injection. After 1hr. the decrease was approx. 30% of the initial value; the sum slowly returned towards the normal range during the following 4hr. A high parenteral dose of salicylate was found to cause only a small depression in the concentration of ATP in rat liver in contrast with the rapid depletion produced by ethionine. These results are discussed in terms of the liver disturbances produced by ethionine and salicylate.
Four patients with severe malabsorption syndrome precipitated by gastric surgery are described. The clinical features were diarrhea, steatorrhea, and a dramatic weight loss promptly following surgery. Laboratory determinations were consistent with malabsorption syndrome. Small intestinal mucosal biopsy demonstrated villous atrophy and inflammatory cell infiltration. In each instance, a gluten-free diet led to clinical improvement and a return toward normal of the laboratory measures of absorptive function. The appearance of the proximal intestinal mucosal histology improved in 3 cases. These findings indicate that evaluation of small bowel function should be undertaken prior to gastric surgery in patients with a family or past history of celiac disease, or symptomatology suggestive of an absorptive defect. Furthermore, this study emphasizes the importance of adequate evaluation of the small intestine in patients with steatorrhea following gastric surgery. Although malabsorption in the postgastrectomy patient may result from disruption of intraluminal digestive processes, the recognition of a concomitant gluten enteropathy can lead to lifesaving dietary therapy.
It has been shown by a number of workers that Brucella melitensis Rev. 1 vaccine confers good protection against infection with Br. melitensis in sheep and goats. Although Br. abortus strain 19 vaccine is widely used in some countries to protect sheep, it has not been evaluated for caprine brucellosis. The purpose of the experiment reported in this paper was to determine and compare the degree of protection given by living vaccines prepared from Rev. 1 and strain 19 and by a non-agglutinogenic strain of Br. melitensis against graded, experimental challenge in goats.Under the conditions of the experiment, it was clearly shown that the Rev. 1 vaccine gave much better protection than either strain 19 or the non-agglutinogenic strain.There was no relationship between antibody response to vaccination and immunity but there was some correlation between the allergic response and immunity; it is suggested that the allergic response might be used as an initial screening test for evaluating Brucella vaccines.
Bacteriological response is generally considered the best criterion for assessing the efficacy of chemotherapy in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. The bacteriological methods most commonly used are examination of sputum smears for tubercle bacilli, culture of bacilli from sputum specimens, and drug-sensitivity tests on positive cultures. Culture examination, though more sensitive than smear examination in detecting tubercle bacilli, is time-consuming and economically impracticable as a routine method in most developing countries. A study was therefore undertaken at the Tuberculosis Chemotherapy Centre, Madras, to determine the relative value of smear examination and culture examination in predicting the outcome of treatment and assessing the efficacy of chemotherapeutic regimens in 515 patients (all with bacteriologically confirmed disease and isoniazid-sensitive organisms on admission) receiving isoniazid, alone or with sodium PAS. The results showed that the value of smear examination of overnight sputum specimens at monthly intervals closely approached that of culture examination in assessing the progress of the patients, the percentages of correct predictions by smear and by culture being of the same order. Smear examination was slightly less effective than culture examination in detecting differences in the efficacies of regimens, but it has been estimated that this disadvantage can usually be compensated for by increasing the study population by about 20%.
Culture examination is technically superior to direct microscopy in the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis, but its practicability and relative importance in various phases of national tuberculosis control programmes in developing countries must be studied before culture facilities are provided on a large scale.Some operational factors affecting the efficacy of the culture method have been analysed in four studies conducted by the National Tuberculosis Institute, Bangalore. The results showed that an interval of up to 7 days between collection of specimens in the field and culture in the laboratory did not affect the yield of positive cultures, even though the specimens were stored and transported under field conditions. A higher proportion of positive cases was detected by culture than by direct microscopy, but the magnitude of the additional yield was dependent upon the procedure for selecting persons for sputum examination. In service programmes restricted to persons with symptoms who voluntarily attend diagnostic centres, the increased yield is too small to justify the introduction of culture examination. The method is substantially rewarding, however, in the evaluation of national control programmes, in changes of drug regimen consequent on altered bacteriological status, and in mass programmes for the early detection of infectious cases.
There is at present a lack of accurate data on the prevalence of leprosy in the different countries of the world, primarily because case-finding has not reached the desired level in many of them. The authors have attempted to provide more realistic figures, using information obtained from several sources and various criteria for calculating estimated prevalence rates.In all there are 2 831 775 registered patients and 10 786 000 estimated cases; the latter figure may well be an underestimate. The number of treated patients is about 1 928 000, some 68% of the registered cases and 18% of the estimated. About 2097 million people live in areas with prevalence rates of 0.5 per 1000 or higher; in these areas nearly one million new cases of leprosy can be expected within the next five years.The estimated number of disabled patients is 3 872 000, of whom 1 961 000 are in disability grades 2-5 (excluding anaesthesia to pain).The data represent an attempt, made with many reservations, to give an indication of the magnitude of the leprosy problem throughout the world.
The eye provides unique opportunities for the detection, during life, of deposits of storage substances and other characteristic changes resulting from inborn metabolic defects. The cornea shows the macromolecular polysaccharides of Hurler's disease, the cystine crystals in cystinosis, and the copper deposits of Wilson's disease. The sclera shows characteristic pigmentation in alcaptonuria. The iris shows the lack of pigmentation in various types of albinism. The lens is cataractous in galactosemia and dislocated in homocystinuria. The vitreous is opacified in familial amyloidosis. The retina shows different and characteristic deposits with the diseases of Tay-Sachs, Niemann-Pick, metachromatic leukodystrophy, and Farber's lipogranulomatosis. The retinal veins show pronounced tortuosity with Fabry's disease. There is some evidence that optic neuropathy occurs in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Curiously, few abnormalities in the eye have been described in subjects with the glycogen storage diseases.
Polycystic ovaries were found in a 16-year-old female with congenital absence of vagina, male-like external genitalia, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Masculinization was sufficiently severe to cause the patient to be reared as a male. Biochemical studies of ovarian tissue revealed hyperactivity and an imbalance of enzyme systems concerned with steroid-hormone biosynthesis, which led to production of large amounts of androgens. The pathway towards estrogens was preserved but less efficient than normal. Urinary steroid metabolites before and after hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy revealed an absence of Porter-Silber chromogens and tetrahydrocortisone. Excretion of aldosterone was normal and that of corticosterone slightly higher than normal. The patterns of urinary 17-ketosteroids, pregnanediol, pregnanetriol and pregnanetriolone were similar to those commonly seen in congenital adrenal hyperplasia with steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Urinary estrogens after panhysterectomy were low, being in the post-menopausal range. The pathogenesis of polycystic ovaries and their possible contribution to masculinization are discussed.
Seven patients with acute or chronic renal failure who were receiving intermittent peritoneal dialysis and who required parenteral oxacillin, ampicillin or tetracycline were studied to determine the disposition of these antibiotics in severe renal disease and the effects of peritoneal dialysis. While severe renal impairment markedly prolongs persistence in the serum of ampicillin and tetracycline, there is little effect on oxacillin. Whereas required doses of ampicillin and tetracycline are lower in the presence of severe renal disease, oxacillin should be given in doses equivalent to those used for patients with normal renal function. Peritoneal dialysis does not alter these dosage requirements.Four patients receiving ampicillin or tetracycline in the infusing solution during peritoneal dialysis were studied to determine the amount of systemic absorption. Local prophylaxis alone is not achieved with this method of administration, since small amounts of both antibiotics are absorbed systemically from the infusing solution. The serum concentration of tetracycline attained is inadequate for treatment of systemic infections but is probably significant, with repeated use in intermittent dialysis, in causing adverse effects. Tetracycline should be abandoned in the local prophylaxis of peritonitis during peritoneal dialysis.
The injuries to the lower extremities seen in a surgical office may be classified as contusions, lacerations, sprains, lesions of tendons and their sheaths, involvement of bursae, chronic muscle fatigue, infections and deformities of the nails, leg ulcers, and fractures of the ankle, foot and toes. The treatment of these conditions in an office will vary under different circumstances, but one should be guided by certain fundamental rules. Contusions are best treated by the application of elastic compression bandages. Extensive lacerations should be explored under local anesthesia with the tourniquet in place, injured tissue excised, and the wound sutured. Ankle sprains should be strapped. Immediate hospitalization must be considered in all moderate to severe initial sprains to the knee. Lesions of bursae usually respond to the injection of hydrocortisone preparations. The same treatment is used in chronic muscle fatigue, plus immobilization of the part. Chronic recurrent infection and deformities of the nails are treated by removal of the nail under local anesthesia. Fractures of the ankle, the foot and toes may be reduced under local anesthesia and a cast applied. If further swelling is feared, the patient should be put in hospital immediately.
Most serious hemorrhages that occur during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy are due either to poor patient selection or to poor management of the patient, or both. In each patient being considered for treatment, the risk of bleeding must be evaluated and classified as high, moderate or low. The clinician must especially assess the risk of intracranial hemorrhage in hypertensive patients, and must screen all patients for potential sources of gastrointestinal bleeding. There is ample time for such investigations, since initiating long-term anticoagulant therapy is not an emergency procedure. The desired level of prothrombin activity must be adjusted to the risks determined for each individual patient. There is no single "therapeutic range" applicable to all patients with their varying hemorrhagenic risks. Proper management includes sufficient laboratory testing to maintain the desired prothrombin level, and continued vigilance to detect signs of early bleeding.Preventable hemorrhage cannot be cited as evidence against the value of anticoagulant drug therapy.
Serum hepatitis and infectious hepatitis may have a common pathogen and their few clinical differences the result only of a difference in portal of entry. The risk of serum hepatitis from transfusions derived from prison and Skid Row populations is at least 10 times that from the use of volunteer donors. For every 100 patients receiving a single transfusion, the attack rate is 0.3 per cent when the donor is of the family or volunteer type and 3.2 per cent when the donor is from a prison or Skid Row population. The most practical methods of reducing the hazard of serum hepatitis from blood are to limit the use of blood by giving one transfusion instead of two, two instead of three, etc., and especially by excluding, if possible, all prison and Skid Row donors. It is urged that state and federal control of the quality of blood used for blood transfusions be studied with the possibility that measures may be taken to increase its safety. If it is necessary that blood from prison and Skid Row donors be used to meet the demands, such blood should be labeled as carrying a significantly increased hazard of transmitting serum hepatitis in order that the physician prescribing blood may take the necessary precautions.
With careful attention to details of preoperative, operative and postoperative care, intrathoracic procedures can be carried out safely in the elderly patient. The authors describe such procedures in 111 patients over 60 years of age who presented with a wide variety of primary diseases. Bronchogenic carcinoma, present in 48 patients, was the commonest. One-third of the total group had significant associated disease, usually in the form of coronary artery or chronic respiratory disease. The overall mortality rate was 6.3%.Before surgery, all patients were prophylactically digitalized regardless of their cardiac status. Blood volume estimations were determined in those with excessive weight loss. At operation, measurement of central venous pressure was found to be the best guide to blood replacement.Retention of bronchial secretions was the commonest postoperative complication. This problem can be minimized with intensive chest physiotherapy, adequate hydration, minimal doses of analgesic agents and, when indicated, early tracheostomy.
A 40-year-old carpenter presented with vomiting due to duodenal obstruction. On further investigation he had partial obstruction of both ureters and occlusion of the inferior vena cava. At laparotomy a large retroperitoneal mass of fibrous tissue was found, which extended into the root of the mesentery of the small intestine and partially occluded the duodenum. There was enlargement of lymphatics and stasis of lymph throughout the mesentery. Hypoalbuminemia was present. (131)I-labelled human serum albumin disappeared rapidly from the plasma and there was excessive loss of plasma albumin into the gastrointestinal tract, presumably owing to obstruction of the lymphatic drainage of the small intestine. Prompt improvement followed treatment with prednisolone. Steroids are apparently useful in this condition, early in the disease before irreversible fibrosis has developed. The presenting feature, vomiting due to duodenal obstruction, has been reported in retroperitoneal fibrosis only once before. This is the first report of protein-losing enteropathy in this disorder.
The term "occult carcinoma" is applied to those patients with carcinoma of the bronchus at an in situ or early invasive stage who have carcinoma cells in their sputum but have no recognizable evidence of tumour in the chest radiograph. In eight such patients at the Toronto General Hospital, the lesion was localized and treatment instituted. Our experience with these eight patients can be compared with that of 27 patients described in two similar studies. The lesions were commonly symptomatic. Localization, although sometimes difficult, was accomplished using information obtained during bronchoscopy and bronchography. The prognosis following adequate resection appeared excellent. No patient died of carcinoma during the post-treatment follow-up period, which was continued for a minimum of 18 months. Pathological evidence indicates that bronchial carcinoma at this occult stage can be diagnosed cytologically, is rarely multifocal and, as a localized neoplasm, is amenable to curative therapy.
A method is presented for the production of a reproducible and reversible renal lesion in the rat by the intravenous injection of a relatively small amount of homologous hemoglobin (40 mg/100 g body weight). Production of the lesion is dependent on prior water deprivation and its severity is related to the degree of dehydration. Ether anesthesia, at the time of hemoglobin injection, predisposes to a severe and reproducible functional defect in the dehydrated rat. In contrast, injection of hemoglobin during pentobarbital anesthesia results in a significant lesion only sporadically. The functional evolution of the lesion has been characterized by inulin clearance measurements. Functional impairment occurs abruptly, within 1 hr after hemoglobin injection, and persists unchanged over the ensuing several hours. Some increase in inulin clearance rate is usually observed at 24 hr after injection, but severe functional impairment persists. Between 24 and 72 hr, a considerable increase in inulin clearance rate occurs, so that only moderate restriction of excretory function is present at the latter time. A further moderate increase in inulin clearance rate is apparent at 7 days after hemoglobin injection, but some reduction in function. persisted in all rats studied at this time. Hemoglobinuria is slight or inapparent in animals manifesting the most marked depression of excretory function, indicating that a severe renal lesion may exist in the absence of visible urinary pigment. Hemoglobinemia is evanescent at the dosage used in this study. These observations suggest that clinical acute renal failure secondary to hemoglobinemia may readily go unrecognized and that this may be a more frequent association than is now appreciated.
Histological studies have been performed on experimental acute renal failure induced by intravenous injection of hemoglobin in rats. These have been correlated with alterations in renal excretory function, assessed by the measurement of inulin clearance, at various stages of the lesion. The most prominent morphological changes during the first 24 hr after hemoglobin injection, when inulin clearance is most markedly suppressed, are: the presence of hemoglobin within the lumen of small intrarenal vessels, particularly the vasa recta; hemoglobin cast formation involving predominantly the thick ascending limbs of the loops of Henle; and evidence of injury of the epithelium of the proximal tubules and thick ascending limbs. Notably absent during this stage of the lesion are marked tubular dilatation, interstitial edema, and cast formation in the distal collecting ducts. The considerable recovery of function which occurs at 72 hr is accompanied by a marked reduction in involvement of the vasa recta. Standard sections and microdissection reveal many markedly dilated proximal tubules at this stage of the lesion, suggesting obstruction of filtering nephrons. These data have led to a tentative hypothesis regarding the pathogenesis of renal failure in this experimental lesion. It is suggested that renal ischemia and failure of glomerular filtration are the primary factors responsible for the early and severe impairment of renal function, and that these are related to intravascular aggregation of hemoglobin pigment. As this defect recedes, tubular obstruction by hemoglobin casts prevents restitution of excretory function in a variable fraction of the nephrons. The latter accounts for the relatively prolonged, moderate reduction in inulin clearance associated with the late stages of this lesion. These hypotheses form the basis for a continuing study of this renal lesion.
A method is described for the measurement of inulin and PAH clearances in rats without killing the animal. Inulin clearance measurements of partially nephrectomized rats and sham-control rats were made before operation and at intervals following the operation; inulin clearances were determined on normal rats at intervals during their growth. In another series of partially nephrectomized rats and their sham-operated controls, inulin and PAH clearances were determined in all the animals before and at intervals following the operation. Glomerular counts were made in some rats. After partial nephrectomy the inulin clearance is reduced but not as much as would be expected considering the amount of renal tissue removed. The mean inulin clearance per nephron is greatly increased in the partially nephrectomized rat when compared to the value determined for the control rat. The inulin clearance of the partially nephrectomized rat shows a progressive decline which is first clearly evident about 6 months after operation. The sham-operated rats showed an inulin clearance slightly less than that of nonoperated controls about 24 to 30 wk after the operation. In the normal rats the inulin clearance relative to body weight is much greater in rats with a mean weight of 197 +/- 3 g than in normals which are older and heavier. The PAH dearance of the partially nephrectomized rat is reduced following operation but undergoes no further change in the ensuing 24 wk.
Severe osteomalacia of uncertain etiology was observed in a 44-year-old woman. There was no evidence of chronic renal insufficiency, malabsorption, or of the renal tubular defects classically associated with osteomalacia. However, the dietary history suggested vitamin D deficiency and most of the biochemical findings were compatible with this condition. The unusual feature of the case was a decrease in plasma bicarbonate levels which appeared to be due to a lowered renal tubular threshold for bicarbonate reabsorption. There was no renal tubular defect with respect to hydrogen ion excretion.Rapid symptomatic and radiologic improvement occurred when the dietary intake of vitamin D was increased to approximately 200 I.U. per day and the acidosis was simultaneously corrected with sodium bicarbonate. Although no firm conclusions could be drawn about the relative importance of vitamin D deficiency or chronic acidosis in the production of the osteomalacia, the possibility that the chronic acidosis may have been a major contributing factor is discussed.
ADVERSE INFLUENCES ON MOTIVATION FOR RECOVERY FROM ALCOHOLISM MUST BE SEARCHED FOR IN THREE AREAS: society, the medical practitioner and the patient. Society is ambivalent because there is a vicarious release through identification with the cheerful "drunk" coupled with unconscious envy and resentment leading to punitive action. The current "alcohol culture" decrees that to drink is to be well, not to drink is to be ill. The medical profession attempts to suppress, deny, rationalize or reject the problem of alcoholism because it involves a change in attitude and recognition of limitations. The alcoholic patient has a notorious lack of motivation, but this must be recognized as a symptom of his disease, and with certain techniques this symptom is treatable. Furthermore, motivation fluctuates and many opportunities for treatment are available when the medical practitioner can detect that motivation is high. At times a coercive approach is required, at times a permissive one; and the optimal use of such approaches will increase the motivation to an effective level.
Ninety-two patients who satisfied the criteria proposed by Kellgren for the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis were re-evaluated by clinical, radiological and laboratory parameters after an average length of illness of 18.7 years. The following associated clinical lesions were studied: aortic insufficiency 8%, heart block 3%, iritis 11%, and other associated lesions. Long-term effects of x-ray therapy were evaluated by comparing irradiated and non-irradiated patients; no significant difference was noted in the clinical course of these two treatment groups. On serum protein electrophoresis no characteristic dysproteinemia was demonstrated; in no instance was there a marked hypergammaglobulinemia. Test results for rheumatoid factor, antinuclear factor and antithyroglobulin were all within the range expected for a normal population. In addition to bilateral sacroiliitis, several other characteristic radiological lesions, such as anterior spondylitis, were present in a high percentage of cases. It is suggested that the diagnostic criteria proposed by Kellgren, although useful, should be enlarged and refined.
One hundred children with impetigo were studied with particular emphasis upon the organism causing the infection and associated renal complications. In 50 per cent of cases, Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus grew on cultures of material from the lesions, and evidence of recent infection with this organism as shown by an elevation of antistreptolysin O titer was present in an additional 17 per cent of cases. Acute glomerulonephritis developed in three of the 66 children with bacteriologic or serologic evidence of streptococcal infection. Four other children in this group and nine children with staphylococcal impetigo had unexplained microscopic hematuria. All children with nephritis already had evidence of the disease when first seen. In most of those with unexplained hematuria, this condition was detected at the first visit. Hematuria developed in others while they were receiving systemic antibiotics. The significance of isolated microscopic hematuria is uncertain, but is seen often in association with cutaneous infection with both staphylococcus and streptococcus. Microscopic hematuria as defined is apparently not prevented by antibiotic therapy. If acute glomerulonephritis that follows streptococcal cutaneous infection is to be prevented, streptococcal impetigo will have to be treated promptly after onset.
Although the philosophy of the community mental health center has been applied to alcoholism since the early part of this decade, it has been pursued much more intensively in recent years, and there has been a decentralization in the management of alcoholics in a series of stages from the jail or work-house to the state hospital and to the clinic and the community. The medical practitioner now has opportunity to treat the alcoholic in private practice. Advances have been made in two directions. Advances in medical management have included reinforcement of the importance of hydration and electrolyte balance, particularly magnesium. Psychopharmacology has contributed three drugs particularly important in the management of acute alcoholism and its complications. These drugs are chlordiazepoxide, chlorpromazine, and thioridazine. Another drug, Antabuse, when properly used, has proven extremely valuable as a deterrent. Equally important have been administrative advances. The importance of the environment and its manipulation has been recognized, and a series of institutional and non-institutional resources, such as clinics, half-way houses, foster homes, and Alcoholics Anonymous has made it less likely that a patient will be turned away without help.
The left internal mammary artery implant combined with epicardiectomy and free omental graft provides three extra-coronary sources of blood. This operation tested in dogs with 92% main-stem occlusion of three coronary arteries protected 75% of the animals. Applied clinically in over 100 patients, the operation resulted in 90% improvement. To obtain complete myocardial revascularization, the right internal mammary artery has been used as a fourth source of extra-coronary blood. In 57 animals, the right internal mammary arteries were implanted into the anterior walls of the right ventricle; in 80% this vessel formed anastomoses with the right coronary tree, and in 65% with the right and left coronary arteriolar systems. Six patients are described who underwent right internal mammary artery implantation; five of these in addition had the combined operation of left internal mammary artery implant, epicardiectomy and free omental graft. All patients had completely blocked right coronary arteries; in addition, five had advanced disease of the left coronary arterial tree.
Among 8,758 necropsies there are 93 cases of systemic amyloidosis. Of these, 14 are associated with malignancy: seven with myelomatosis or malignant lymphoma, and seven with carcinoma. The incidence of amyloidosis in myelomatosis is at least 10%. Attention is drawn to the presence of amyloid in the tubular casts of ;myeloma kidney'. In Hodgkin's disease the incidence is about 4% but it may be higher in patients receiving chemotherapy. In lymphosarcoma it is of the order of a fraction of 1% but in macroglobulinaemia, essential or associated with malignant lymphoma, the incidence is considerably higher. Systemic amyloid is found in one in 375 of patients with carcinoma and in only a single patient among 1,500 ;control cases'. Renal carcinoma accounts for one-quarter of all carcinomas associated with systemic amyloid. The other carcinomas originate in a variety of organs. In myelomatosis, amyloid may be found in the tumour deposits. In Hodgkin's disease and in lymphosarcoma there appears to be greater amyloid deposition in neoplastic tissue than hitherto realized. The carcinomas provide a striking example of topographical association of amyloid and tumour, the two being closely related in six of seven cases.
The severity and distribution of coronary arteriographic abnormalities have been reviewed in 88 patients with clinical evidence of coronary heart disease who were studied by Sones' technique. The patients were divided into four groups: myocardial infarction without angina, myocardial infarction with angina, angina with normal resting electrocardiogram, angina with abnormal resting electrocardiogram.Arteriographic abnormalities were generally diffuse throughout the coronary circulation, and at least two vessels were involved in 84 patients. Although the frequency of lesions was similar in the four groups of patients, those with previous myocardial infarction had the highest incidence of complete obstruction. Patients with angina and a normal resting electrocardiogram showed the least severe obstructive lesions. The severity of the arteriographic abnormalities was independent of the duration of clinical symptoms, and it appears that diffuse involvement of the coronary arterial tree is usually present when symptoms develop.
Hyper-beta-alaninemia was found in a somnolent, convulsing infant. Hyper-beta-aminoaciduria (beta-ala, betaAIB and taurine) was also observed, varying directly with plasma beta-alanine concentration. The beta-aminoaciduria is explained by the interaction between beta-alanine and a specific cellular-transport system with preference for beta-amino compounds. Gamma-aminobutyricaciduria was also observed, its excretion being independent of beta-alanine levels. Dietary modifications, pyridoxine, pantothenic acid and antibiotic therapy were not beneficial. Post-mortem tissues had elevated levels of beta-alanine and carnosine; GABA levels in brain were probably elevated for the age of the patient. A proposed block in beta-alanine-alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase would expand the free beta-alanine pool, thus increasing tissue carnosine. beta-Alanine is a central-nervous-system depressant. Associated inhibition of GABA transaminase and displacement of GABA from central-nervous-system binding sites would produce GABAuria and convulsions.
A series of 12 patients with shock that followed bacteremia due to gram-negative pathogens is presented, and a case is reported. The hemodynamic alterations that occur in such patients are discussed. Initial therapy includes intravascular volume expansion and administration of glucocorticoids and antibiotic drugs; subsequent therapy, if necessary, includes administration of metaraminol and isoproterenol respectively. The problems encountered with this method of treatment are described. The use of isoproterenol (2.5 to 5 mg. in 500 ml. of 5 per cent dextrose in water administered intravenously at a rate of 0.5 to 2.0 ml. per minute) is suggested to correct the hemodynamic alterations usually present and permit further expansion of circulating blood volume with reduced risk of acute circulatory overload. Clinical use of this drug is recommended because of its positive ionotropic effect on the myocardium (beta-adrenergic stimulation) and direct peripheral arterial vasodilator effect (alpha-adrenergic blockade) that act to correct the hemodynamic alterations usually present in man in endotoxin shock.
Two unrelated children, suffering from a transient illness characterized by fever, bone pain and tenderness, inability to walk, x-ray evidence of subperiosteal new bone formation and dysproteinemia, are described. In both children the onset followed a respiratory infection. The fever lasted for about three weeks in 1 patient and two months in the other. As fever subsided, the x-ray evidence of periosteal hyperostosis gradually disappeared, and the electrophoretic pattern of the serum proteins returned to normal. Tibial biopsy in 1 patient showed subperiosteal new bone formation of the right-angled type, with no inflammation and with the presence of mucinous edema. Plasma cells were unusually abundant in the bone marrow. The serum protein disturbance was characterized by hypoalbuminemia and striking elevation of the alpha2 and gamma globulins. Detailed serum protein studies performed in 1 patient showed the hypergammaglobulinemia to be due primarily to an increase in the IgG fraction. No etiologic agent was identified, and recovery was complete in both patients. The entity does not appear to have been described previously.
The clinical and pathologic findings in three patients with bacterial infection at the sites of prosthetic aortic valves are described. Each presented typical clinical features of acute bacterial endocarditis followed by the sudden development of severe and ultimately fatal aortic regurgitation. Pathologically the infectious process was characterized by extensive necrosis of the aortic annulus, disruption of the aortic wall, and the formation of abscesses in the periaortic tissues. In two patients the prosthetic valve was partially detached from the annulus, whereas in the other it was totally dislodged and impacted in the aortic arch shortly before death. In all, secondary operative intervention would have been fruitless because of the extent of the infection and the character of the tissue at the aortic root. In one patient fatal staphylococcal endocarditis followed dental extractions despite penicillin prophylaxis. A more comprehensive antibiotic regimen for patients with prosthetic cardiac valves is suggested.
In the plasma of patients with acute myocardial infarction the values for phosphatidyl ethanolamine are on the average 50% to 100% higher than in patients with chronic coronary heart disease and up to 400% higher than in normal individuals. Those for phosphatidyl serine are about 50% higher than in patients with chronic coronary heart disease and up to 300% higher than in normal individuals. Expressed in percentages of total phospholipids, the share of phosphatidyl ethanolamine in acute myocardial infarction is about twice as high as in chronic coronary heart disease and three times as high as in healthy persons. The share of phosphatidyl serine is about 50% higher than in patients with chronic coronary heart disease and also almost 300% higher than in healthy persons. Following the acute incident the values for the cephalins, both phosphatidyl ethanolamine and phosphatidyl serine, decrease slowly. Phosphatidyl ethanolamine reaches the level found in patients with chronic coronary heart disease in about 4 weeks, phosphatidyl serine in about 1 week.
A method is described for the determination of serum thyroxine using ion-exchange resin sponges. The principle is based on the use of protein-binding sites and part of the technique is similar to the Triomet resin uptake test. An isotope extraction recovery procedure is incorporated in the method. Studies of factors influencing the analysis are reported and the results of tests of accuracy, precision, and specificity are presented. Serum thyroxine iodine values are compared with protein-bound iodine estimations. The values found in health and disease are similar to the results of previous workers. The specificity of the analysis represents a considerable advantage over protein-bound iodine determinations since no interference is caused by iodides, iodine-containing contrast media, mercurial diuretics, mono-iodotyrosine, di-iodotyrosine, di-iodothyronine, and also tri-iodothyronine in physiological amounts. Therapy with diphenylhydantoin and tri-iodothyronine will tend to depress protein-bound iodine levels and thyroxine values are similarly influenced.
Studies utilizing mevalonic acid-2-(14)C and D(2)O as precursors failed to provide evidence for an appreciable rate of endogenous biosynthesis of phytanic acid in a patient with Refsum's disease. Orally administered tracer doses of phytol-U-(14)C were well absorbed both by seven normal control subjects (61 to 94%) and by two patients with Refsum's disease (74 and 80%). The fraction of the absorbed dose converted to (14)CO(2) in 12 hours was 3.5 and 5.8% in Refsum's disease patients and averaged 20.9% in seven control subjects. Labeled phytanic acid was demonstrated in the plasma of both control subjects and patients given phytol-U-(14)C, establishing phytol in the diet as a potential precursor of phytanic acid. This labeled phytanic acid had disappeared almost completely from the plasma of the seven control subjects by 24 to 48 hours, whereas it persisted at high concentrations in the plasma of the two patients for many days. We conclude that the phytanic acid accumulating in Refsum's disease is primarily of exogenous origin and that patients with Refsum's disease have a relative block in the degradation of phytanic acid and possibly other similar branched-chain compounds. This may relate to a deficiency in mechanisms for release of phytanic acid from stored ester forms or, more probably, to reactions essential to oxidative degradation of the carbon skeleton.
The role of the kidney in the catabolism of Bence Jones proteins, intact IgG molecules, and isolated L chains, Fab and Fc fragments of IgG, was studied. The proteins were purified, radioiodinated, and their survival times measured in nephrectomized, ureter-severed, and control mice. Active endogenous catabolism was the major factor in overall Bence Jones metabolism since excretion as proteinuria accounted for less than 25% of the total metabolism. The survival times of lambda- and kappa-type human Bence Jones proteins and the Bence Jones protein produced by mice with MPC-2 plasma cell tumor were exceedingly short in both unoperated and ureter-severed mice, with 50% of the injected protein catabolized in from 0.8-1.6 hr. In contrast, the survival of Bence Jones protein was markedly prolonged in nephrectomized animals, with 50% of the injected dose catabolized in from 9 to 17 hr. This ten-fold decrease in catabolic rate indicates that the kidneys are the major site of breakdown of Bence Jones proteins. Similar studies with other proteins indicated that the kidneys are also the major site for catabolism of isolated L chains but not of intact IgG molecules. The Fc immunoglobulin fragment was not catabolized and the Fab fragment only partially catabolized by the kidney. When ureter-severed animals were allowed to develop advanced uremia before being studied, the survival of Bence Jones protein was greatly prolonged, indicating that the catabolic process is impaired in the presence of uremia. The nature of this renal catabolism remains unknown. These observations suggest that the Bence Jones proteins and L chains observed in the urine of patients may reflect only a small fraction of such molecules synthesized by these patients. Furthermore, they provide an explanation for the prolongation of Bence Jones protein survival and the development of Bence Jones proteinemia observed in subjects with multiple myeloma and impaired renal function.
Sera from patients with extrahepatic biliary obstruction were found to have an abnormal lipoprotein (obstructive lipoprotein) which failed to react with antibodies to normal lipoproteins of d < 1.063. Preparations of this abnormal lipoprotein made by a combination of immunoprecipitation and multiple polyanion precipitations revealed a high content of free cholesterol (26%) and phospholipids (61%) but only trace amounts of cholesterol esters and triglycerides. Protein content varied from 13% to a corrected low of 5% when ultracentrifugation was also performed. Amino acid analyses of the latter preparations resembled that of lipoproteins of d < 1.006. The reasons underlying the apparent unreactivity of the abnormal lipoprotein were explored. No evidence could be found for soluble antigen-antibody complexes of gamma-globulin and the abnormal lipoprotein, nor for inhibition of antigen-antibody complex formation by serum factors. Purified preparations of obstructive lipoprotein did not react with antisera to high- or low-density lipoproteins prepared from normal sera. Moreover, rabbits immunized with the abnormal lipoproteins produced specific antibodies to this lipoprotein which reacted with a d < 1.006 lipoprotein in normal sera. All other lipoprotein fractions from normal sera were unreactive. It is not known whether this lipoprotein is abnormal by virtue of the presence of a unique peptide or because of secondary alterations in lipoprotein structure.
Five male patients with sudden, severe mitral insufficiency due solely to ruptured chordae tendineae or papillary muscle had an abrupt onset of symptoms of left and right heart failure and the sudden appearance of a harsh, widely propagated apical pansystolic murmur. None had a history of rheumatic fever. All were in sinus rhythm and had but mild left atrial and ventricular enlargement. Giant left atrial "v" waves were characteristic and exceeded pulmonary artery pressure in two instances.In contrast, when ruptured chordae tendineae were superimposed on chronic rheumatic mitral insufficiency, females predominated and there was a long history of disability. Atrial fibrillation, less elevation of left atrial pressure, and marked left atrial and ventricular enlargement were characteristic. These latter patients closely resembled patients with chronic rheumatic mitral insufficiency alone.It is concluded that the syndrome of sudden, severe mitral insufficiency develops if ruptured chordae tendineae occur on a previously normal or insignificantly diseased mitral valve. If ruptured chordae tendineae are superimposed on chronic rheumatic mitral insufficiency, the syndrome resembles that seen in the latter alone.
The effects upon islet hormone secretion of highly purified preparations of secretin and of pancreozymin-cholecystokinin and of a crude gastrin-containing extract of hog antrum have been studied in acutely operated dogs. All three preparations were shown to cause a striking increase in insulin concentration in the pancreaticoduodenal venous plasma after their rapid endoportal injection in anesthetized dogs. With each hormone preparation, the peak in insulin secretion occurred 1 minute after injection, and a rapid decline was observed immediately thereafter. Whereas secretin and gastrin failed to alter significantly the pancreaticoduodenal venous glucagon or arterial glucose concentration, pancreozymin caused a dramatic rise in pancreaticoduodenal venous glucagon concentration, which reached a peak 3 minutes after injection, and hyperglycemia was noted to occur soon thereafter. Endoportal infusion of secretin and pancreozymin for 20 minutes caused responses that were sustained but qualitatively identical to the responses noted after rapid injection of the hormones. The beta-cytotropic effect of secretin was abolished by the infusion of epinephrine. These results could not be attributed to the small degree of contamination of the enteric hormone preparations with insulin or glucagon, and it would appear that secretin, pancreozymin, and probably gastrin have insulin-releasing activity and that pancreozymin has, in addition, glucagon-releasing activity.The demonstration that these three hormones possess insulin-releasing activity suggests that there is in the gastrointestinal tract a chain of betacytotropic hormones from antrum to ileum that is capable of augmenting insulin secretion as required for disposal of substrate loads. It is suggested that the existence of this "entero-insular axis" prevents high substrate concentrations that would otherwise follow ingestion of large meals were the insular response entirely a function of arterial substrate concentration.
The plasma concentration, production rate, and conversion ratio of androstenedione and testosterone were studied in seven children with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) of the 21-hydroxylase type. Plasma androstenedione and testosterone measured by double isotope derivative assay and estimated blood production rates were manyfold increased in the untreated state, markedly suppressed with glucocorticoid, and increased after the administration of ACTH. The metabolic clearance rate when corrected for body size and the conversion ratio of androstenedione to testosterone were similar to previously determined values in normal adults. Consideration of the androgen concentrations and conversion ratios indicates that in children with CAH, 76% of the plasma testosterone in prepubertal females and 36% in males are derived from peripheral conversion of blood androstenedione. The calculated amount of testosterone unaccounted for by peripheral conversion is similar to normal prepubertal values. This approach indicates that virilization in these children results from increased levels of testosterone but that the major source in CAH of this potent androgen is androstenedione secreted by the adrenal cortex.
Forty hypertensive patients were studied to examine the assumption that the angiotensin pressor dose reflects endogenous renin activity. Peripheral renin activity was assayed by the method of Boucher et al.(4) Sensitivity to the infusion of synthetic angiotensin II was determined as suggested by Kaplan and Silah.(1)Sixteen patients with essential hypertension with normal renal angiography required 3.8 ng. angiotensin/kg./min. to raise the diastolic pressure 20 mm. Hg. All but one were sensitive to angiotensin infusion of less than 5 ng./kg./min. Renin activity was normal in all except in one sensitive subject. Angiotensin infusion response and mean renin activity in 13 patients with essential hypertension with abnormal renal angiography were similar to that of the first group. The pressor dose in 11 renovascular hypertensives was 9.8 ng./kg./min. All but three had elevated plasma renin activity.OUR RESULTS SUGGEST THAT: the angiotensin infusion test is suitable for differentiating patients with true renovascular hypertension from those with essential hypertension with or without associated renal artery disease; the angiotensin pressor dose correlates with the level of peripheral venous renin activity (p < 0.01).
A highly purified preparation of staphylococcal enterotoxin B was administered intravenously, 1 mg/kg, to rhesus monkeys. Electroencephalograms (EEG) were recorded from electrodes attached to the skin or implanted on the dura. The dose of toxin employed consistently produced a sequence of vascular collapse followed by death; in control studies, animals were bled periodically to produce a similar pattern of shock. Regardless of the time to death following administration of the enterotoxin, there were essentially no changes from base line EEG patterns until shortly before death. With the development of preterminal severe shock, there was a marked decrease in EEG wave frequency and an initial increase in amplitude. The latter diminished progressively to produce an isoelectric tracing immediately prior to death. This could be reversed for a brief period by epinephrine. An identical sequence of EEG changes was observed during the terminal period of hemorrhagic shock. It is postulated that cerebral anoxia, caused by inadequate blood flow, is the primary cause of the altered EEG patterns that accompany enterotoxin toxicity. In this respect, staphylococcal enterotoxin B produces changes apparently similar to bacterial endotoxin but distinctly different from the EEG effects reported after botulinum toxin, anthrax toxin, or rattlesnake and cobra venom.
The heterogeneous nature of mental retardation, as well as certain common practices of workers in the area, has resulted in a variety of conceptual am biguities. Considerable order could be brought to the area if, instead of viewing all retardates as a homogeneous group arbitrarily defined by some I.Q. score, workers would clearly distinguish between the group of retardates known to suffer from some organic defect and the larger group of retardates referred to as familial retardates. It is the etiology of familial retardation that currently constitutes the greatest mystery. A number of authorities have emphasized the need for employing recent polygenic models of inheritance in an effort to understand the familial retardate. While appreciating the importance of environment in affecting the distribution determined by genetic inheritance, these workers have argued that familial retardates are not essentially different from individuals of greater intellect, but represent, rather, the lower portion of the intellectual curve which reflects normal intellectual variability. As emphasized by the two-group approach, retardates with known physiological or organic defect are viewed as presenting a quite different etiological problem. The familial retardate, on the other hand, is seen as a perfectly normal expression of the population gene pool, of slower and more limited intellectual development than the individual of average intellect. This view generates the proposition that retardates and normals at the same general cognitive level-that is, of the same mental age-are similar in respect to their cognitive functioning. However, such a proposition runs headlong into findings that retardates and normals of the same mental age often differ in performance. Such findings have bolstered what is currently the most popular theoretical approach to retarded functioning-namely, the view that all retardates suffer from some specific defect which inheres in mental retardation and thus makes the retardate immutably "different" from normals, even when the general level of intellectual development is controlled. While these defect or difference approaches, as exemplified in the work of Luria, Spitz, Ellis, and Lewin and Kounin, dominate the area of mental retardation, the indirect, and therefore equivocal, nature of the evidence of these workers has generated considerable controversy. In contrast to this approach, the general developmental position has emphasized systematic evaluation of the role of experiential, motivational, and personality factors. As a central thesis, this position asserts that performance on experimental and real-life tasks is never the single inexorable product of the retardate's cognitive structure but, rather, reflects a wide variety of relatively nonintellective factors which greatly influence the general adequacy of performance. Thus, many of the reported behavioral differences between normals and retardates of the same mental age are seen as products of motivational and experiential differences between these groups, rather than as the result of any inherent cognitive deficiency in the retardates. Factors thought to be of particular importance in the behavior of the retardate are social deprivation and the positive- and negative-reaction tendencies to which such deprivation gives rise; the high number of failure experiences and the particular approach to problem-solving which they generate; and atypical reinforcer hierarchies. There is little question that we are witnessing a productive, exciting, and perhaps inevitably chaotic period in the history of man's concern with the problem of mental retardation. Even the disagreements that presently exist must be considered rather healthy phenomena. These disagreements will unquestionably generate new knowledge which, in the hands of practitioners, may become the vehicle through which the performance of children, regardless of intellectual level, may be improved.
The state of metabolic acidosis involves changes of a varied and subtle nature in other organs as well as in the kidney. This fact has been illustrated in metabolic studies with glutamine, a major substrate of the kidney and of various other organs. In addition to the well-described increase in renal glutaminase enzymes, the hexose monophosphate-shunt enzymes also are much more active during metabolic acidosis; this phenomenon is limited to the kidney; its exact meaning remains speculative, but its possible relation to renal excretion of acid, lipogenesis, and gluconeogenesis during acidosis has been discussed. In the kidney there are metabolic changes associated with ammonium chloride acidosis that affect the basic mechanisms of gene-directed growth. There is a renal regenerative process during this kind of acidosis that resembles in some respects the compensatory hypertrophy in the remaining kidney after unilateral nephrectomy, from which it also differs in important ways. Lastly, we must now regard the role of glutamine in renal metabolism as an affair that goes well beyond the specific needs of formation of ammonia during the normal and acidotic states. Glutamine enters the general metabolic mill of the kidney, its carbon skeleton is incorporated into all the major tissue components, and it is an important source material for gluconeogenesis in the kidney; all of these renal functions of glutamine are increased during metabolic acidosis. Thus there is a fruitful field of exploration ahead, not only in the biochemical aspects of the renal response, but also in the metabolic interrelations among different organs during various types of acid-base change. This article, in concentrating on metabolic acidosis, gives only a glimpse of a broader picture to come.
A short review of past and recent works pertinent to the etiology and pathogenesis of infectious mononucleosis is presented. Epidemiological studies have led to the elaboration of hypotheses concerning the etiology, the length of the incubation period and the mode of transmission of the disease. An unusual type of infectious mononucleosis of rickettsial origin has been reported by Japanese workers. Studies of accidental and experimental transmission suggest that more than one agent may give rise to the same disease. Isolation attempts in tissue cultures have been unrewarding except for the uncovering of possible agents by interference and immunofluorescence.The atypical lymphocyte is the site of increased RNA and DNA synthesis. It does not seem to be involved in antibody synthesis. The heterophile agglutinins and other mononucleosis-associated antibodies apparently account for only part of the excess 19S antibody material found in mononucleosis sera. The origin and function of these antibodies and of the atypical lymphocyte are the subject of speculation.The final elucidation of the pathogenesis of the disease and the confirmation of the reviewed hypotheses are all dependent on the eventual discovery of the elusive etiological agent(s) of infectious mononucleosis.
Cancer is not necessarily autonomous and intrinsically self-perpetuating. Its growth can be sustained and propagated by hormonal function in the host which is not unusual in kind or exaggerated in rate but which is operating at normal or even subnormal levels. Hormones, or synthetic substances inducing physiologic effects similar thereto, are of crucial significance for survival of several kinds of hormone-responsive cancers in man and animals. Opposite sorts of change of the hormonal status can induce regression and, in some instances, cure such cancers. These modifications are deprivation of essential hormones and hormone interference by giving large amounts of critical compounds. The control of cancer by endocrine methods can be described in three propositions: Some types of cancer cells differ in a cardinal way from the cells from which they arose in their response to change in their hormonal environment. (ii) Certain cancers are hormone-dependent and these cells die when supporting hormones are eliminated. (iii) Certain cancers succumb when large amounts of hormones are administered.
Certain aspects of the chronic leukemias that may influence future therapeutic trials are reviewed. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), there is minimal mitotic activity in lymphoid tissues; indolent, long-lived lymphocytes, unresponsive to antigenic or phytohemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation accumulate. In many patients, erythroid precursors fail to proliferate despite the stimulus of a severe anemia, but a proliferative response can be initiated by prednisone. We need to know how the normal proliferative responses of these cells are modified, because the correction of these abnormalities would relieve most of the disease manifestations. CLL may not be a neoplastic disorder. In chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), the leukocyte doubling time shortens as the disease duration lengthens; a significant correlation between this time and survival is demonstrated. Before therapy designed to eliminate the Ph(1)-positive (Philadelphia chromosome) stem cell is tried, we need to know whether a normal hematopoietic stem cell exists in Ph(1)-positive CML.
The urea washout (UWT) modification of the intravenous pyelogram was used to study 146 hypertensive patients in order to detect the presence of significant renovascular abnormalities. A positive result was obtained in 55 patients and direct confirmation of main renal artery stenoses by selective renal arteriography was obtained in Bilateral abnormalities were confirmed in seven of the 26 patients. No false-negative results were encountered. The usefulness of this test as a comprehensive screening test is outlined. It demonstrated a high degree of accuracy in the diagnosis of significant unilateral or bilateral main renal artery stenosis in addition to the detection of diffuse intrarenal arteriolar disease. It was of value in the postoperative assessment of operative repair of main renal artery defects. The urea washout test embodies both an anatomical and a physiological approach in the roentgen diagnosis of curable renovascular hypertension. The altered physiology resulting from significant main renal artery stenosis makes possible the use of the urea washout intravenous pyelogram. The value of other forms of intravenous pyelography is described.
During clinical studies on a 34-year-old man with marked hypogonadism secondary to pituitary gonadotrophin insufficiency, an attempt was made to determine whether the testes were capable of androgen production when stimulated by exogenous chorionic gonadotrophin (A.P.L.).Androgen excretion before and after chorionic gonadotrophin administration was studied. Total and fractionated 17-ketosteroid patterns suggested a severe Leydig cell deficiency which was confirmed by testicular biopsy.Panhypopituitarism was considered excluded by a normal response to metyrapone ditartrate, by a normal serum PBI and a normal radioactive iodine uptake. Genetic disorders were likewise excluded to the extent possible by determining that the chromosome pattern was normal and by determining that no similar condition existed in another member of the same family. The association of anosmia with gonadotrophin insufficiency in this case suggests a primary disorder in the hypothalamo-mamillary-tuber cinereum area.
Lipoprotein lipase activity (LLA) was measured in the adipose tissue of six healthy subjects and five members of a family in whom the trait for familial exogenous hypertriglyceridemia was segregating. The lipase activity measured was characteristic of lipoprotein lipase: increased by feeding, dependent on the presence of serum, and inhibited by sodium chloride and protamine sulfate. When compared with lipase activity in healthy individuals, LLA was grossly deficient in two siblings with postabsorptive chylomicronemia and was intermediate in both parents and one sibling, who had normal postabsorptive triglycerides. These findings are compatible with autosomal recessive inheritance. The hormone-sensitive lipolytic enzyme responsible for mobilization of free fatty acids from adipose storage was normal in the hyperlipemic subjects. After a 104-g fat meal, the serum triglyceride increased more in subjects heterozygotic for LLA deficiency than in the healthy subjects, and there was a relatively greater increase in chylomicrons and very low density lipoproteins in the affected individuals. These observations demonstrate the physiologic importance of lipoprotein lipase in removal of these lipoprotein groups and further clarify the differences between endogenous and exogenous hypertriglyceridemia.
A blow to the head will impart rotational velocity to the brain and, depending on its magnitude, will produce effects ranging from concussion to profound neurological dysfunction. Resultant shear strains distort and rupture axons, blood vessels and major fibre tracts. Thirty-seven patients with head injury that was not complicated by significant hemorrhage or superficial laceration of the brain had coma or severe dementia, spastic quadriparesis, incontinence and autonomic dysfunction. These patients survived 24 hours to 243 days. Gross pathological examination revealed little, but there was microscopic evidence of axonal and small vessel injury in all; this was localized to the basal and midsagittal areas of the diencephalon and mesencephalon, particularly in those less severely injured. Such changes represent the basic pathology of all head injury. Data from this study suggest that concussion depends upon varying degrees of damage to the axon as well as the neuron. The current definition of concussion-immediate loss of consciousness with rapid and complete recovery of cerebral function-should not exclude the fact that a small number of neurons may have been permanently disconnected or have perished.
Twenty-seven adults with acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis were divided into two groups according to the severity of reduction in renal function: 14 patients with mild depression of renal function, and 13 patients with more severe renal insufficiency. In the first group the outcome was favourable, with complete clinical recovery in 11 patients. Only two patients in the second group have recovered. Five have died of renal failure and in six the chronic stage has developed. The most notable histopathological lesion observed in this group of patients was severe proliferative glomerulonephritis with a large number of epithelial crescents. According to the mode of development and time of onset of renal failure, these 13 patients could be divided into three sub-groups: early renal failure without oliguria (three patients), early renal failure with severe oliguria or anuria (three patients) and delayed renal failure (seven patients).Although there are exceptions, the development of renal insufficiency in an adult patient suffering from acute glomerulonephritis is usually associated with a guarded prognosis.
The role of "leakage" of tubular fluid in anuria produced by mercury poisoning was studied in rats by micropuncture techniques. After an initial brisk diuresis, almost all animals were completely anuric 24 hours after HgCl(2) injection. Lissamine green injected intravenously in the early stage of anuria appeared in the beginning of the proximal tubule, but the color became progressively lighter as the dye traversed the proximal convolutions. The dye was barely visible in the terminal segments of the proximal tubule; it did not appear at all in the distal tubules. These observations suggest that the proximal epithelium had become abnormally permeable to Lissamine green. Tubular fluid to plasma inulin (TF/P(In)) ratios and inulin clearance were measured in individual nephrons at three sites: early proximal tubule, late proximal tubule, and distal tubule. It was found that TF/P(In) ratios were abnormally low in the late proximal and distal tubules. Inulin clearance was normal at the beginning of the proximal tubule but fell by more than 60% by the late proximal convolutions. Thus, the proximal tubule had also become permeable to inulin. We conclude from these observations that anuria in mercury poisoning can occur in the presence of a normal glomerular filtration rate. The absence of urine flow appears to be due to complete absorption of the filtrate through an excessively permeable tubular epithelium. The driving force affecting this fluid absorption is probably the colloid oncotic pressure of the peritubular capillary blood.
In normotensive subjects, acute reduction of mean arterial pressure to from 60 to 75 mm Hg by infusion of sodium nitroprusside caused significant increase in renin activity of renal venous plasma and also in the renal-systemic difference of renin activity. At the same time, the products of the renal-systemic difference of renin activity and renal plasma flow increased significantly, whereas renin substrate activity of plasma was unchanged, indicating that there was an increase in renin release during reduction in pressure. Renin activity of renal venous plasma, expressed in logarithms, showed a significant correlation with the degree of reduction in pressure; an increase in renin activity became significant when mean arterial pressure was reduced to below a level of 70 to 75 mm Hg. There was a striking difference in the renal response to reduction in pressure between patients with renovascular hypertension and normotensive subjects. In 10 renovascular hypertensive patients, significant increase in renin release occurred from the involved kidney at mean arterial pressures ranging from 90 to 137 mm Hg; the threshold at which renin release increased was shifted to a range much higher than that in normotensive subjects. Furthermore, the magnitude of renin release from the involved kidney was significantly greater when compared to that in normotensive subjects. In contrast, in the contralateral uninvolved kidney, no significant release of renin was detected during reduction in pressure. The renal mechanism controlling renin secretion appears to be operative at higher systemic arterial pressure levels and with enhanced responsiveness in the involved kidney of renovascular hypertensive patients; the findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the renin-angiotensin system participates in maintaining hypertension in this disease.
The content of aldosterone, corticosterone, and cortisol has been assayed in normal adrenal tissue obtained at autopsy and in adrenal adenomas from both normotensive and hypertensive patients obtained at autopsy and from patients with primary aldosteronism obtained at surgery. The content of aldosterone and corticosterone in the adenomas of patients with essential hypertension was similar to that of normal adrenal tissue and much less than that of adenomas from patients with primary aldosteronism. Since these results do not appear to reflect various extraneous factors such as assay technique, degradation of steroids, and patient selection, they suggest that most adrenal adenomas found in patients with essential hypertension are not associated with increased aldosterone production. The presence of such adenomas should not, in itself, be considered evidence for primary aldosteronism. The excretion or secretion of aldosterone in 43 hypertensive patients was found to be similar to that of 39 normotensive patients. These results suggest that primary aldosteronism is rarely the cause of "essential" hypertension.
The average plasma testosterone concentration of women with either hirsutism or polycystic ovaries and hirsutism was higher (p < 0.01) than that of normal women although the ranges overlapped. Testosterone blood production rates averaged 830 +/- 120 SE and 1,180 +/- 310 SE mug per day in the two groups of hirsute women and 230 +/- 33 SE mug per day in normal women. The ranges did not overlap. The testosterone metabolic clearance rates of hirsute women (1,090 +/- 140 SE L per day) and of men (1,240 +/- 136 SE L per day) were significantly higher than those of normal women (590 +/- 44 SE L per day). These differences persisted when the metabolic clearance rates were corrected for surface area. We suggest that testosterone metabolic clearance rates vary directly with some function of testosterone production. The mean plasma androstenedione levels (2.8 +/- 0.35 SE and 2.8 +/- 0.30 SE mug per L) and production rates (6,060 +/- 450 SE and 7,360 +/- 345 SE mug per day) of the women with hirsutism or polycystic ovaries, respectively, were significantly higher than those of normal women (1.5 +/- 0.22 SE mug per L; 3,300 +/- 830 SE mug per day). The androstenedione metabolic clearance rates were the same in each group. Plasma androstenedione was the precursor of 49% of plasma testosterone in normal women and of 26% of plasma testosterone in hirsute women. Thus, 74% of the plasma testosterone in these subjects must have been either secreted or derived from a precursor that did not enter the plasma androstenedione pool.
The therapy of acute leukemia has improved rapidly in the last two decades. Using available therapeutic agents, complete clinical and hematological remission can be achieved regularly in children with acute lymphocytic leukemia. The choice of chemotherapeutic agent, management of complications of hemorrhage and infection, and recognition of prognostic factors are important for the induction of a hematological remission. While patients in complete hematological remission are free of evidence of disease they still have residual leukemic cells, but in our present state of knowledge and with available techniques, we are unable to detect these. For this reason it is important to treat patients while in remission. The importance of dosage schedule for remission maintenance chemotherapy is stressed.In patients studied to date, regardless of the treatment used, the disease has recurred eventually. Available therapeutic agents are highly effective and highly selective, but they still fall short of providing ideal control of the disease. The continuing search for new chemotherapeutic agents is aided by the knowledge gained and techniques developed with current agents.
Hemolytic disease characterized by slight anemia, reticulocytosis, hemosiderosis, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and positive indirect antiglobulin (Coombs') tests and renal disease with proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, and glomerular lesions were produced in Swiss mice by neonatal intraperitoneal inoculation of cell-free filtrates prepared from the spleens of old NZB/Bl mice. Lymphoid cell and plasma cell hyperplasia as well as hypergammaglobulinemia occurred in some of these inoculated mice. Type "C" murine oncogenic virus-like particles, indistinguishable from those previously described (1), were shown by electron microscopic study to be present in distinctive locations, notably in the basal foldings of convoluted tubules in the kidneys of a newborn NZB/Bl mouse, old NZB/Bl mice, a CBA x NZB F(1) hybrid mouse, and a Swiss mouse inoculated with NZB/Bl spleen cell-free filtrate. These observations point to two (perhaps related) circumstances which may be requisites for the pathogenic action of this newly discovered virus within and outside the strain NZB: infection of newborn, or infant, mice; persistent, possibly tolerant, infection of adult mice.
In disabling conditions of the shoulder the involvement is either primary or secondary in origin. The primary disabilities are usually caused by sudden direct trauma or repeated minor traumata. Bursitis, tendonitis, and minor tears of the rotator cuff may result. The disabilities which arise secondarily are more difficult to treat and may have prolonged sequelae. Cervical radiculitis, infectious mononeuritis, cardiac disease, and cerebrovascular disease are common sources for secondary shoulder involvement. Pain and limitation of motion with loss of function are the presenting symptoms. The selection of a proper program of therapy is determined by the diagnosis. Primary conditions are responsive to the usual physical measures of moist heat, ultrasound, and the common exercises. Injections of local anesthestics or steroids and use of deep x-ray therapy may also be effective. The disabilities which arise secondarily are more difficult to treat and often become chronic and intolerably painful. In the author's experience, the most effective treatment for the secondarily induced shoulder problem is the combined use of moist heat of mild intensity, manual mobilization, neuromuscular facilitation, and a suitable home program of appropriate exercise.
In normal females, androstenedione from both the adrenal cortex and ovary, as a result of peripheral conversion, is the source of the majority of biologically active testosterone in the circulation. The control of the secretion of precursor steroid and androgenic hormone (testosterone) in females is not clear at this time. There are a number of possibilities to explain various types of hirsutism and virilization. The presence of true virilization indicates a significant disorder and requires complete investigation. The presence of increased amounts of 17-ketosteroids in the urine implicates the adrenal cortex as a source of the pathologic manifestations. The suppressibility of elevated 17-ketosteroids with cortisol analogues aids in distinguishing between adrenal hyperplasia and autonomous neoplasm of the adrenal cortex. By far the most common entity in this area is simple hirsutism without virilization. Although our knowledge of this disorder is quite incomplete, conservative management is indicated. Further progress in this field is rapidly occurring. An informed clinician can do an adequate job of diagnosis and treatment with the clinical and laboratory tools generally available.
Myasthenia gravis is a serious and debilitating disease associated with conduction defects occurring at the myoneural junction. About 15 per cent of the patients have associated tumors of the thymus and 80 per cent of the remaining patients show abnormalities of the thymus. Although a definite relationship between cause and effect has not been proved, thymectomy or radiotherapy of the thymus does seem to influence the disease. Seven cases of myasthenia gravis in which radiation therapy was used at the University of California Medical Center are reported and compared with those described in the literature. It is concluded that patients whose disease is progressing and not well managed medically, and who have no evidence of thymoma, should be treated by irradiation-whether pre-operatively or as definitive treatment, depending on the result of irradiation. Those patients with evidence of thymoma should be irradiated before surgical procedure. Small tumors, or patients in whom surgical risk is increased, may be managed by radiation therapy alone.
The phospholipid-hydrolyzing activity of rat liver lysosomes has been studied. These lysosomes contain a phospholipase that cleaves both fatty acid ester linkages of lecithin and of phosphatidyl ethanolamine and releases free fatty acids from both positional isomers of lysolecithin. The enzyme does not require calcium for maximum activity, and is inhibited by diethyl ether and sodium deoxycholate. Mercuric ions and cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide also inhibit the hydrolysis. Compared with lipase activity, this enzyme is relatively stable to heat. The specific activity of the hydrolysis of lecithin by the lysosomal enzyme is considerably higher than those reported for mitochondrial and microsomal phospholipases. The enzyme resembles other hydrolases of the lysosome in that it has an acid pH optimum (pH 4.5). This enzymic activity is present in both the lysosomal soluble enzyme fraction and in the lysosomal membrane fraction. The enzyme may participate in the intracellular digestion of mitochondria that is carried out by the intact lysosome in vivo. Localized inflammation and changes in vascular permeability following tissue damage could be catalyzed by this phospholipase.
Twenty cases of primary varicella pneumonia, 16 in adults and four in children, were studied. Two adults and four children died, two of the latter with complicating bacterial infections. In two patients the primary cause of death was severe alveolar-capillary block. Staphylococcal septicemia, midbrain hemorrhage and meningoencephalitis were primarily responsible for death in other patients.Radiologically, the lungs showed diffuse, poorly marginated, nodular lesions, often peribronchial in location, more easily defined in the thinner peripheral lung fields, with an alveolar acinar pattern, tending to coalesce in the hilar and perihilar regions. Pathologically, the cutaneous varicella lesions were matched by similar lesions regularly found in the lungs and pleura, as well as the peritoneum and the liver. The pulmonary nodular lesions corresponded to alveoli, filled with precipitated protein and active inflammatory cellular material, surrounding the bronchioles, which themselves were often involved, and these in turn were surrounded by areas of normally aerated alveoli. Eleven moderately to severely ill patients were treated with antibiotics, six moderately to extremely ill were treated with antibiotics and adrenal cortical steroids. There was no evidence of significant change in the course of the disease resulting from use of steroid therapy.
Inflow of preformed ammonia in arterial blood, renal production of ammonia, outflow of ammonia in renal venous blood, and urinary excretion of ammonia were measured during the infusion of (15)NH(4)Cl into one renal artery of dogs with chronic metabolic acidosis. Our results show that the specific activity of ammonia measured in the urine and that calculated in the renal pool agree within 95%. Pool specific activity is obtained by dividing the rate of infusion of isotope by the pool turnover rate, i.e., the sum of the rate of ammonia output in the urine and that in renal venous blood. An average of 35% of urinary ammonia is derived from arterial ammonia in these experiments. We conclude that ammonia is distributed evenly throughout all phases of the kidney within a period less than the transit time of blood through the kidney. Furthermore, from the proportion of urinary ammonia we found to be derived from preformed arterial ammonia (35%), and from our previous demonstration that 73% of urinary ammonia derives from deamidation and/or deamination of plasma glutamine, alanine, glycine, and glutamate, we can account for all of the ammonia that leaves the kidney in renal venous blood and in urine.
The production and peripheral metabolism of cortisol have been studied in 10 cirrhotics and 11 controls after i.v. tracers of cortisol-(14)C. The findings were as follows: Total urinary excretion of radioactivity was normal (81% of the dose) but a decreased fraction was present as glucosiduronates: 18-47% of the dose (average 34%) compared to a normal average of 54%. There was a distinctively abnormal pattern of cortisol metabolites, not previously observed in other illnesses: tetrahydrocortisone was decreased to 14% of the enzyme hydrolysate (normal 26%); cortolones were increased to 34% (normal 19%), owing entirely to an increase in cortolone (20alpha) formation, since beta-cortolone (20beta) was not significantly increased; Reichstein's substances U and epi-U were increased, averaging 2.6% for the former and 4.7% for the latter; tetrahydrocortisol, allotetrahydrocortisol and cortols were normal. This pattern was independent of the degree of decreased glucosiduronate formation and also independent of the presence or absence of a portacaval shunt. Cortisol production, determined by isotope dilution, was normal in each of six cirrhotic patients. From these data, taken in conjunction with our previously reported findings concerning the influence of norethandrolone on cortisol metabolism, the following conclusions were drawn: Cirrhotic patients have decreased A-ring reduction of cortisone to tetrahydrocortisone and correspondingly increased 20-ketone reduction of cortisone to Reichstein's substances U and epi-U and then to the cortolones. Intrahepatic cholestasis, a regular pathophysiological feature of cirrhosis, may be responsible for the observed abnormal cortisol metabolite pattern in this disease. The slowed metabolic turnover rate of cortisol in cirrhosis may be due to decreased transport and/or binding of cortisol to its intracellular metabolic sites rather than to abnormalities of any specific metabolizing enzymes.
Hemoglobin C is less soluble than hemoglobin A in red cells, in hemolysates, and in dilute phosphate buffer. Its relative insolubility may be explained by electrostatic interactions between positively charged beta6-lysyl groups and negatively charged groups on adjacent molecules. Red cells from patients with homozygous hemoglobin C (CC) disease exhibit aberrant physical properties which suggest that the cells are more rigid than normal erythrocytes. They pass through membrane filters less readily than normal red cells do, and their viscosity is higher than that of normal cells. Differences from normal cells are exaggerated if mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) is increased, by suspension in hypertonic salt solution. Increased rigidity of CC cells, by accelerating their fragmentation, may be responsible for formation of microspherocytes. These small dense cells are exceptionally rigid, and probably are even more susceptible to fragmentation and sequestration. Rigidity of CC cells can be attributed to a "precrystalline" state of intracellular hemoglobin, in which crystallization does not occur, although the MCHC exceeds the solubility of hemoglobin in hemolysates.
Erythrocytosis without clinical illness was noted in a man and his two daughters. Their blood contained approximately 62% hemoglobin A and 38% a new hemoglobin, designated hemoglobin Yakima. The oxygen affinity of whole blood from each subject was greatly increased and heme-heme interactions were impaired. At 37 degrees C and a plasma pH of 7.40, the oxygen pressure required to produce 50% saturation of hemoglobin with oxygen was only 12 mm Hg as compared with a normal of 26 mm Hg. The high oxygen affinity of this blood is attributed to the presence of hemoglobin Yakima; and the increased oxygen affinity was shown to be characteristic of the isolated abnormal hemoglobin. A Bohr effect was present in hemoglobin Yakima. Arterial oxygen pressure, oxygen consumption, and cardiac output at rest were normal. With respect to oxygen delivery to tissues, the increased hemoglobin concentration appears to be the major compensation for the marked displacement of the oxygen-hemoglobin equilibrium curve, although other factors may contribute. The finding of high normal quantities of erythropoietin in the urine is consistent with this degree of erythrocytosis.
Plasma levels of tyrosine were assayed in the fasting state and after oral administration of either tyrosine (tyrosine tolerance test) or phenylalanine (phenlyalanine conversion test) in normal subjects and in patients with hepatitis, biliary obstruction, or cirrhosis. Fasting tyrosine levels tended to be slightly increased in patients with hepatitis and biliary obstruction and markedly increased in patients with cirrhosis. Tyrosine tolerance tests in patients with cirrhosis were characterized by larger than normal increments in tyrosine levels and by delayed returns toward fasting levels. The results of phenylalanine conversion tests were abnormal in approximately one-half of patients with either hepatitis or biliary obstruction and four-fifths of patients with cirrhosis. Abnormalities were characterized by elevated fasting plasma tyrosine levels, or small and delayed increments in tyrosine levels, or both. Abnormal phenylalanine conversion test results in patients with cirrhosis did not correlate closely with any clinical feature of cirrhosis or with the results of any standard liver function test; there was positive correlation only with abnormal ammonia tolerance, a test of portalsystemic shunting. Tests of tyrosine metabolism do not appear to be useful for routine clinical assessment of liver function. Tyrosine tolerance tests and phenylalanine conversion tests done for purposes of diagnosis of other diseases may yield misleading results in patients with liver disease.
Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) red cells lose membrane lipids excessively during incubation in vitro. Individual phosphatides as well as cholesterol are lost in proportion to their content in membranes, suggesting that fragments of membrane are removed. Supplementation of HS red cells with glucose during incubation has no consistent protective effect, whereas diminishing the excessive sodium flux through these cells by suspending them in either sodium-free or hypertonic media prevents membrane fragmentation. The characteristic excessive increase in osmotic fragility which occurs in incubated HS red cells results both from inordinate accumulation of intracellular sodium ions which produces osmotic swelling, and from depletion of surface material which generates microspherocytosis. Inhibiting both of these processes by incubating HS red cells in sodium-free media completely prevents increases in osmotic fragility despite prolonged incubation. Normal red cells rendered hyperpermeable to cations by exposure either to n-butanol or to inhibitors of membrane sulfhydryl groups, lose membrane lipid upon incubation in a similar fashion to untreated HS red cells; perfectly smooth microspherocytes, akin to those seen in HS, are thereby generated.I conclude that depletion of membrane lipids in HS which leads to microspherocytosis is correlatable with the excessive cation flux and possibly to the stimulated metabolism of acidic phosphatides in these red cells. It is suggested that this relation is derived from the fact that these phosphatides are in some way involved in maintaining the proper alignment of repeating membrane lipoprotein units, and that this function is adversely affected when these molecules are turning over more rapidly in response to increased cation flux.
The historical background to the disorder is unfolded. It was originally regarded as a dermatological curiosity, and later sarcoidosis was recognized as a disorder diffusely involving most tissues of the body. Clinical syndromes described include those presenting to the dermatologist, ophthalmologist, chest physician and radiologist, gastroenterologist and neurologist. Tissues commonly involved are lungs, lymph nodes, eyes, skin and bone in that order of frequency. Granulomatous uveitis in the presence of skin lesions should always arouse the suspicion of sarcoidosis; ocular and bone involvement are frequently associated with lupus pernio, whereas lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly are more commonly linked with plaques and maculo-papular eruptions. Bone cysts are rare in the absence of skin lesions, so routine radiography of hands and feet is of little diagnostic value. The basic criteria for establishing the diagnosis of sarcoidosis are twofold: Suggestive clinical and/or radiological features with evidence of generalized involvement. Histological proof of sarcoid tissue from at least one tissue. Evidence of one without the other is insufficient, for clinical or radiological manifestations alone present too wide a differential diagnostic problem and, conversely, isolated histological evidence of sarcoid tissue could be construed as a local sarcoid-tissue reaction. Histological confirmation is obtained whenever possible from accessible involved tissues (skin or lymph node). Otherwise blind biopsy of liver, scalene lymph node or gastrocnemius muscle is employed, or alternatively the Siltzbach-Kveim test is performed. It is a safe, simple and specific outpatient skin test, which provides histological confirmation in three-quarters of patients with sarcoidosis. The natural history of sarcoidosis and the response to treatment vary with the type of disease--namely subacute (transient) or chronic (persistent) forms of sarcoidosis. The only treatment which favourably influences clinical, or radiological or histological features of the disease is corticosteroid therapy. Indications for treatment are: ophthalmic involvement, steadily worsening chest radiograph, breathlessness, persistent hypercalciuria, disfiguring skin lesions, neurological involvement, disordered glandular function.
The property of secretin to alter the total nitrogen content of duodenal juice was evaluated in 27 patients. The mean concentration of total nitrogen was about 100 ml of duodenal juice before secretin stimulation and dropped to about the half after secretin. In patients with pathological values of volume or bicarbonate concentration after secretin injection, the decrease in total nitrogen concentration following stimulation was significantly less. The average value of total nitrogen concentration and that evaluated from total protein determination were 100 mg and 10-20 mg/100 ml respectively. This discrepancy may be explained by a rapid degradation of the proteins in the duodenal juice. The total nitrogen determination was inferior to the estimation of bicarbonate concentration in differentiating between a normal and pathological pancreatic function, but similar to that of volume rate and superior to the estimation of amylase activity. Before secretin stimulation a highly significant correlation was found between the concentrations of total nitrogen and those of total protein and amylase activity. After stimulation a slighter significant correlation only was found between the concentrations of total nitrogen and total protein in the first 20-minute post-secretin period.
The synthesis of taurocholic and glycocholic acids was studied in the whole homogenate and in subcellular fractions of livers from 18 patients operated on for cholestasis and compared with a control material with clinically normal liver function. A considerable decrease of synthesis of cholic acid conjugates was found in icteric homogenates, while no significant alteration of the synthesis was found in subcellular fractions containing the bile acid activating and transferring enzyme. The synthesis of cholic acid conjugates in icteric homogenates showed an inverse significant correlation to serum bilirubin values. Cholic acid conjugates added in vitro inhibited the synthesis of conjugates in homogenates and subcellular fractions. Bilirubin added in vitro brought about a significant decrease in synthesis of conjugates in homogenates but no changes of synthesis in the subcellular fractions mentioned. Soluble fraction as well as isolated mitochondria obtained from icteric human liver inhibited the synthesis of conjugates in microsome fraction and in combined microsome fraction and L-fraction. Oligomycin significantly increased the synthesis of conjugates in icteric homogenates but did not influence the synthesis in the mentioned subcellular fractions from icteric livers, or in homogenates from livers with clinically normal function. In no case, however, did oligomycin raise the synthesis of bile acid conjugates in icteric homogenate to that of controls. It is suggested that the bile acid conjugating enzyme system is intact in cases of cholestasis of short duration (<14 days) and that the decreased synthesis of conjugates in icteric homogenates might be the result of a product inhibition of the conjugation reaction by retained bile acid conjugates and of stimulated mitochondrial ATPase activity caused by retention of bile components.
Compartmental analysis of the peripheral distribution of labeled thyroxine was applied to various groups of subjects with thyrotoxicosis and hypothyroidism. It was observed that the hepatic incorporation of thyroxine was augmented in subjects with Graves' disease when compared to non-Graves' disease control groups at all levels of thyroid function. Decreased values of hepatic incorporation occurred in primary hypothyroid subjects. These lowered values were not acutely corrected by elevation of the serum thyroxine level, but were observed to be rectified after several months' therapy with exogenous thyroid hormone. These alterations of the hepatic thyroxine-(131)I incorporation were independently verified by direct quantitative liver scintiscan determinations. Employing a dual thyroxine tracer system, we were able to demonstrate that during the early phases of equilibration of a tracer dose of thyroxine, alterations in the rate of deiodination were observed to be present in the various thyroid disease states. Increased deiodination rates were found in subjects with Graves' disease and the reverse was noted in patients with primary hypothyroidism. Kinetic analysis of thyroxine compartmental distribution during this early phase of equilibration of a labeled thyroxine tracer indicated that the primary tissue uptake occurred in the liver. These findings supported the contention that the amount of labeled thyroxine incorporated in the liver may be directly related to the deiodination rate of thyroxine by that organ. The pathogenetic basis of these alterations is presently unknown.
The effect of ascorbic acid deficiency on glycosaminoglycans of granulation tissue and cartilage of guinea pigs was investigated by determination of the changes in the glucosamine and galactosamine contents 12 days after tendonectomy. In normal granulation tissue, the glucosamine and galactosamine contents rose to a peak at 5 and 10 days respectively, whereas the hydroxyproline and proline contents continued to rise throughout the 20 days after tendonectomy. The galactosamine in scorbutic granulation tissue, but not in that of pair-fed controls, decreased significantly in absolute amount and relatively to glucosamine, which remained practically unchanged; the cartilage galactosamine did not decrease during the 22 days of deficiency owing to the presence of excess of preformed galactosaminoglycans, which masked the small amount of newly formed glycosaminoglycans. The chemical results were confirmed by radioactivity studies in vivo of incorporation of [U-(14)C]glucose into galactosamine and glucosamine of scorbutic granulation tissue and cartilage. The incorporation of (14)C into galactosamine decreased significantly in scurvy in both tissues. The results indicated in both tissues a decreased formation of galactosamine during scurvy, although an increased degradation of polymerized glycosaminoglycans could not be entirely ruled out. It is concluded that, if lack of ascorbic acid causes an impaired galactosamine formation, the most likely position for the block may be in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 4-epimerase reaction.
Patients with the "non-salt-losing" form of the adrenogenital syndrome were studied before and after suppression of adrenal cortical activity with carbohydrate-active steroids. The response of aldosterone secretion to sodium deprivation was measured; in some patients response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) was measured as well. The aldosterone secretion was normal and responded normally to sodium deprivation in all patients studied during suppression with carbohydrate-active steroids. This finding suggests that 21-hydroxylation of progesterone is normal in this syndrome. The sole abnormality in the production of aldosterone in these patients was found to be excessive secretion of aldosterone while they were not receiving suppressive doses of carbohydrate-active steroids. This finding strongly supports the view that the biogenetic pathways through which aldosterone is produced from progesterone are intact in this syndrome. No patient showed hypertension or hypokalemic alkalosis despite very high aldosterone secretion rates. This observation suggests that the hyper-aldosteronism is secondary to a tendency to sodium loss in the patient whose ACTH production is not suppressed. These studies provide additional evidence in support of the hypothesis that the salt-losing and "non-salt-losing" forms of adrenogenital syndrome are genetically and biochemically distinct.
Radiation is curative in many types of localized cancer, whereas chemotherapy is rarely curative in either localized or widespread cancer. For this reason, chemotherapy should never be employed in any situation where it might hinder or prevent the administration of a potentially curative dose of radiation. However, in Burkitt's tumor in Africa, where a multicentric origin seems to be much more probable, cyclophosphamide, 40 mg/kg intravenously repeated every 3 to 4 weeks, has occasionally been curative. In the treatment of Wilms' tumor, surgery, radiation and chemotherapy are essential for optimal results. In acute leukemia, chemotherapy with the conventional agents, as well as newer drugs such as cytosine arabinoside and L-asparaginase, is the treatment of choice, with radiation being useful mainly in treatment of localized disease in the bones or in the central nervous system. The great interest in L-asparaginase at the present time lies in the fact that certain neoplastic cells have a specific nutritional requirement for the amino acid L-asparagine, whereas no normal cells appear to have this requirement. In many cases of advanced neoplastic disease, the partnership of radiation therapy to reduce large bulky lesions composed to a large extent of nonproliferating cells, followed by chemotherapy to destroy the few surviving and now perhaps proliferating cells remaining in the original mass or in metastases, would seem to offer the greatest promise of theoretical and practical benefit.
The authors report treatment of inguinal and retroperitoneal lymph nodes of 285 malignant lymphomas (143 Hodgkin's disease and 142 lymphoreticular sarcomas) with Lipiodol Fluide 131I (endolymphatic radiotherapy). From 1961 to 1966 the radioactive contrast material was injected in doses ranging from 0.2 to 2.5 mc/cc (10 cc each foot). Adequately opacified nodes responded promptly with marked and progressive reduction in size. When indicated, a second administration of Lipiodol 131I in a dose of 2.5 mc/cc was always feasible. Several factors prevented a homogeneous and satisfactory distribution of radioactive contrast material throughout the iliac and the para-aortic nodes in one third of the cases. Therefore, in many instances patients had to be treated with external radiation therapy. Histopathologic examination of lymph nodes removed at exploratory laparotomy (four cases) or at autopsy (ten cases) confirmed that Lipiodol 131I did not fill all the iliac and para-aortic nodes and that destruction of lymphomatous tissue was often incomplete. Recurrences were seen mostly in abnormal adequately filled nodes opacified with high doses of Lipiodol 131I. In Hodgkin's disease they occurred particularly in the para-aortic area and in lymphoreticular sarcomas in the inguinal and iliac chains. Side effects were minimal. They included amenorrhea, pulmonary insufficiency, hepatic failure and hemolytic anemia. Clinical and histologic signs of pulmonary and hepatic fibrosis were not seen. The authors conclude that endolymphatic radiotherapy should not be considered as a radical treatment for retroperitoneal adenopathies in malignant lymphomas and that its role as a prophylactic therapeutic tool deserves more extensive long-term studies.
The death rate among neonates with cardiovascular disease is 50 percent during the first six months, with the majority dying during the first month. With early diagnosis most of these babies could be saved. In approaching the diagnosis of cardiac distress in the newborn, it is important to remember that the types of cardiovascular disease which cause symptoms and death early in life are quite different from those in older children. Lesions such as hypoplasia of the left heart, transposition of the great arteries, endocardial fibroelastosis, pulmonary atresia, mitral atresia, tricuspid atresia and truncus arteriosus are common, not rare, causes of cardiac distress in the newborn.A classification of neonatal cardiovascular diseases into seven pathophysiological groups is presented as a basis for an effective, practical approach to the differential diagnosis of the potentially lethal lesions. This approach is simplified further since over 90 percent of babies with cardiac distress have one of three lesions: Large left-to-right shunt (characterized by the presence of massive plethora on the chest roentgenogram), Large right-to-left shunt (association with intense cyanosis) or Severe obstruction (including hypoplasia of the left heart, which is the most common cause of death due to cardiac distress during the first week of life).
The relative ability of the calcium chelates of calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate (EDTA) and calcium trisodium ethylenetriaminepentaacetate (DTPA) to protect mice against lethal doses of Clostridium perfringens alpha-toxin was investigated. Their protective ability was assayed by the increase in survival time of mice which had been given large doses of toxin, and by determining the median protective dose of chelate that would protect mice against toxin at a minimum lethal dose of two. In both assay procedures, intraperitoneal, intravenous, and intracutaneous injections of toxin were utilized, and with each toxin injection route the protective ability of the chelate was determined with the three routes of injection. DTPA was 10 to 20 times more effective than EDTA with both types of assay procedure and with all injection routes. DTPA may be superior to EDTA as a protective agent not only because it binds zinc to a greater extent, but also because of its greater retention in the body and its ability to gain entrance into cells. It appears that DTPA may be of value as a therapeutic agent in gas-gangrene.
Two reasons have decided of the choice of the thema: The intention to stressing the clinical aspect of the psychiatry of children and the frequency of the encephalopathy under different form. These problems have become a social calamity and demand urgently social prevention, therapy and rehabilitation. The priority of psychoanalysis in certain countries causes the underestimation of the organic basis which, since, at very beginning of individual life contributes to change the reactivity of the individual. A great number of psychic disorders traditionally considered as psychogenic might have a source in minimal, subclinical alterations of the brain tissue caused by various etiological factors. From a biological point of view the individual biography does not start in the moment of birth but at conception. The secret of psychic health is hidden in the genetic elements of life. All the aspects of individual development have their value in regard to modern psychiatric diagnosis. In spite of the immense progress in the diagnostic skill, it is difficult to discover the remote causes. We can only approach to an ideal using the clinical methods: PEG, EEG, arteriography and others. Thanks to these examinations oligophreny, epilepsy and other diseases are no more nosological units but symptomatological or syndromological notions with various etiology and localisation. Different authors suppose different localisation of alterations causing erethism. A part of the brain may be damaged but the principle of the brain synergy as a whole is obligatory. Our researches have contributed to liquidate almost entirely the ancient conception of psychopathy. Our material enabled us to classify character disorders into 4 categories: Constitutionally conditioned psychopaths, sociopaths, homilopaths whose character disorders are the consequence of contact difficulties with their environment because of their infirmity, Characteropaths which represent character disturbances caused by organic brain defects. The diagnostic criteria are not psychopathologic but somato-clinical. The psychopaths' quantity decreases in dependence of exactitude of our methods. The morbid reactivity of characteropathic children exposes them to secondary neurotisation and sociopathisation. Our traditional opinions concerning hysteria and obsessive neurosis should undergo radical supervision: severe cases have a basis in a organic brain damage. These examples throw light on the etioepigenesis phenomena, i.e. on the stratification of functional psychotic or neurotic syndromes on a psychoorganic substratum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Among children causing educational difficulties there is, according to the author, a much greater number of encephalopaths with BTEC than it is commonly assumed. Better diagnostic methods help more and more often to diagnose organic changes in the so-called difficult children. The present report gives a clinical picture of encephalopathy after BTEC. Studies were made on a group of 500 children who had suffered brain trauma of various kinds during their foetal life or early childhood. Symptoms of the infantile psychoorganic syndrome and character disorders were the most significant features of encephalopathy after BTEC. Furthermore, the children presented changes in the EEG and a lowered IQ score (not very markedly, as a rule). Focal neurological changes were rare. Basing on the fact that character disorders are a most typical feature of encephalopathy, the author classified encephalopaths as belonging either to the group of bradykinesia or that of hyperkinesia. Each of these groups has further been subdivided into those comprising the common, the asocial and the anxious type, according to the encephalopaths' attitude toward their environment.
Interstitial implantation and intracavitary applications occupy a definite position in the curative management of cancer. With these techniques a much higher dose can be delivered to the tumor than possible with external radiation. At the same time, a much lower dose is given to the adjoining normal tissue avoiding severe complications and late damage of the normal tissue and organs. The high doses delivered with internal radiation are tolerated well because the irradiated volumes are very small compared to the volumes which are irradiated with external radiation therapy even with small-field technique. However, the methods and the radioisotopes which are commonly used in interstitial and intracavitary radiation therapy are complicated and unsatisfactory from the radiation safety point of view. For this reason new methods with artificial radioisotopes were developed at Memorial Hospital for interstitial and intracavitary radiation. These techniques include the remote afterloader with which all intracavitary applications were carried out since July 1967 and the use of low energy 125I seeds for interstitial implants. The clinical experience with both techniques indicates that most of the drawbacks of the older methods are eliminated while their proven therapeutic value is retained.
The development of cancer in a pre-existing benign cystic teratoma of the ovary is rare. A total of 272 cases have now been recorded in the literature, although detailed reports are unavailable in Excluding cases of doubtful classification, 93% of tumors were carcinomas and only 7% sarcomas. In the epithelial group squamous carcinoma was by far the most common (83%). The incidence of adenocarcinoma and argentaffinoma was approximately equal at 6%, although the number of cases of carcinoid tumor reported in recent years appears to be increasing. The present report tabulates the findings in 43 cases described since the last extensive review in The average age of patients was 55 years and the only symptom or sign was an abdominal mass, except when the tumor had extended through the cyst wall. Right and left ovaries were involved with equal frequency. Treatment varied from simple removal of the cyst to hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. In some inoperable cases only biopsy of the lesion was possible. Prognosis was poor when extension through the cyst wall had occurred and good otherwise. The first case of chondrosarcoma and the fourteenth case of carcinoid tumor arising in a benign cystic teratoma are reported.
Of 32 patients seen in Memorial Center since 1920 with myosarcomas of the bladder or prostate 26 were male and six were female. The tumors arose in the bladder in 20, in the prostate in 11 and in one patient both organs were involved. Sarcomas of the bladder account for two or three of every thousand bladder cancers and for one of every thousand prostate cancers. Seventy-six patients, or approximately 10% of reported cases, have survived 3 years or more from diagnosis. Forty-five of those 76 sarcomas were reported as specific myosarcomas, i.e., embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, adult rhabdomyosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma or combinations of those three. Thirty-six arose in the bladder, nine arose in the prostate. The most successful methods of treatment have been cystectomy for embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of the bladder and segmental resection for leiomyosarcoma of the bladder. Rhabdomyosarcoma of the bladder and prostate has seldom been managed successfully, so that no particular treatment can be unconditionally recommended. Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of the prostate is as yet an incurable condition.
Cystathionine is not normally present in urine and only a few cases of congenital cystathioninuria are known. Cystathioninuria has also been found in patients with sympathetic tumors or with primary hepatic tumors. This study was undertaken in order to assess the significance of cystathioninuria in the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with active neuroblastoma or ganglioneuroblastoma. It was found that 50% of these patients excrete cystathionine. The presence or severity of cystathioninuria does not correlate with the extent of metastases, nor is it combined with an elevated vanilmandelic acid excretion. By contrast, patients successfully treated for neuroblastoma, as well as patients with a variety of other tumors or diseases, do not show cystathioninuria. It is concluded that cystathioninuria is a valid test in the diagnosis of neuroblastoma or ganglioneuroblastoma, although primary liver tumors should be considered in the differential diagnosis. Furthermore, the presence of cystathioninuria in the follow-up course of these patients indicates that the neoplastic disease is still active.
An analysis of the clinical, radiographic, histologic and follow-up data on 249 cases of lesions of periodontal membrane origin is presented. Such lesions may be cementoid, osteoid, mixed (cemento-osteoid) or fibrous. These tumors may be single or multiple and usually behave in a benign fashion. Occasionally they may act in an aggressive manner and attain giant size, although none metastasize. The benign fibro-osseous lesions of periodontal membrane origin are more prevalent in the jaws than fibro-osseous lesions of medullary bone origin. The use of polarized light was most helpful in distinguishing mature cementoid lesions from tumors with mature lamellar bone; the former have finer lines of parallel birefringence. Fibrous dysplasia has often been misused as a diagnostic term and was found not to be prevalent as a fibro-osseous jaw lesion. Fibrous dysplasia has its own particular histologic features, and the immature "woven" bone within the lesion polarizes in a random birefringent pattern.
The guanido carbon of hepatic arginine is the common precursor of urea and of the arginine of plasma proteins synthesized in the liver. It is possible to measure the momentary synthetic rates of plasma proteins by "pulse labeling" this arginine pool with bicarbonate-(14)C. In the current study, this method has been adapted in order to use urinary urea data and was applied to control subjects and patients with gastrointestinal protein loss. The assumptions required for this determination are discussed. There was close agreement between albumin synthetic rates measured by this method and albumin catabolic rates derived from simultaneous albumin-(131)I studies, supporting the validity of the method and suggesting that there is relatively little fluctuation in the rate of albumin synthesis from time to time. The albumin synthetic rates in six control subjects averaged 5.8 mg/kg per hr, while those of five patients with gastrointestinal protein loss averaged 7.2 mg/kg per hr. Thus in these patients, there was relatively little acceleration of albumin synthesis in response to continued loss of plasma proteins into the gastrointestinal tract. Fibrinogen synthetic rates averaged 1.9 mg/kg per hr in five control subjects and 3.2 mg/kg per hr in five patients with gastrointestinal protein loss. Transferrin synthetic rates exhibited considerable individual variation in both groups and averaged 0.24 mg/kg per hr in four control subjects and 0.31 mg/kg per hr in five patients with gastrointestinal protein loss. The method employed in this study offers several advantages in studying plasma protein metabolism. It provides a direct measurement of protein synthesis, applicable to several proteins simultaneously, does not require a long-term steady state in the metabolism of the proteins, and is capable of measuring short-term fluctuations in synthetic rates. Therefore, this approach is applicable to the investigation of the physiological factors controlling the rates of synthesis for plasma proteins.
Active glycogen metabolism has been demonstrated in both normal and glycogen-rich erythrocytes taken from patients with type III glycogen storage disease. Activity of all enzymes catalyzing the reactions required for the synthesis and degradation of glycogen have been demonstrated in the mature erythrocytes. Uniformly labeled glucose-(14)C is incorporated into glycogen in intact cells of both types during incubation. Replacement of the glucose-(14)C by unlabeled glucose in the medium resulted in a significant loss of radioactivity from cellular glycogen. In the absence of the substrate a progressive shortening of outer branches occurred during incubation of intact glucogen-rich cells. Using cells from patients with type III glycogen storage disease, which have sufficient glycogen content to be analyzed by beta-amylolysis, we demonstrated that the glucosyl units are first incorporated in the outer tiers, then transferred to the core where they tend to accumulate due to the absence of amylo-1,6-glucosidase. The glycogen-rich cells have a more rapid rate of glucose utilization upon incubation which is not reflected by a higher lactate production. The increased rate of glucose utilization did not result from an increased rate of glucose incorporation into glycogen in affected cells. The rate of (14)CO(2) production from glucose-1-(14)C during incubation was not significantly different in the two types of cells unless methylene blue was added as an electron acceptor, in which case the glycogen-rich cells oxidized glucose to CO(2) more rapidly.
Chemotherapeutic trials in urinary schistosomiasis are described and discussed. Their design and conduct were based on recommended statistical techniques, now generally accepted as the most appropriate approach to the assessment of antischistosomal drugs.Randomization produced comparable host groups in whom multiple parasitic infection and radiological urinary tract damage were common. Treatment was with one of three antimonial compounds given at equivalent metallic dosage daily.Antimony sodium tartrate (AST) and antimony dimercaptosuccinate (TWSb) were equally efficient curatively but both produced many side-effects. Sodium antimonylgluconate (TSAG) was four-fifths as effective but tolerance was superior. Estimations of urinary antimony excretion showed that tissue retention of the metal was related to cure-rates and side-effects. It was concluded that none of the drugs were suitable for mass chemotherapy.More new non-toxic schistosomicides are urgently needed and for their assessment, the setting-up of multicentre trials, following international agreement on technical methods, is suggested.
The colour vision of a Type I deuteranope who fulfils both of Willmer's criteria (normal foveal luminosity curve, two cone mechanisms in the central fovea revealed by a small 10' test flash) has been studied.2. Spectral sensitivity curves (at threshold) on bright red or green backgrounds are identical in the red-green range.3. Heterochromatic brightness-match luminosity curves measured after bright red or green bleaches are identical in the red-green range.4. Study of prereceptor light losses show normal colour of the ocular media; spectral reflexion coefficient measurements reveal no evidence of macular pigment.5. Luminosity curves measured through a filter which artificially replaces the missing macular pigment is identical to the deuteranopic (Type II) curve. Lack of macular pigment explains the ;normal' luminosity curve.6. Red and violet backgrounds raise the thresholds for 10' red and violet tests by different amounts because two cone (the red and the blue) mechanisms are concerned.7. Reducing the size of the test to 4' eliminates the contribution of the blue cone mechanism to threshold. Now only the red mechanism determines the threshold.8. It is concluded that this subject has only a single red-green cone pigment, normal erythrolabe, like other (Type II) deuteranopes.
Heterologous antirabies serum is commonly used in the treatment of persons exposed to rabies. However, the high incidence of serum sickness which accompanies its use has prompted work to develop a homologous human product. As human antirabies serum is expensive and difficult to obtain in large quantities, a series of experiments was done on guinea-pigs to test the effects of homologous and heterologous antirabies serum.Similar amounts of homologous and heterologous antisera administered to guinea-pigs produced similar circulating neutralization titres one day later. The homologous antibody titres, however, decreased more slowly than the heterologous antibody titres.When homologous antiserum was given, followed by duck-embryo rabies vaccine, an apparent response to the vaccine was suppressed or delayed longer than when heterologous antiserum and vaccine were administered. However, when homologous antiserum was given with suckling-mouse-brain vaccine, of a much higher potency, the response to vaccine was apparent in the presence of a passive titre of 1:120.If a similar relationship is seen in man with the use of a homologous antirabies product, it will be essential to use high potency vaccines or alter the established vaccination schedules in order to overcome the inherent interference problems.
The long-term results of intermittent peritoneal dialysis in long-term treatment of renal disease have yet to equal those of intermittent hemodialysis. However, further exploration and refinement of this technique is justified. Performed in acute stages of disease, both peritoneal dialysis and hemodialysis relieve the symptoms of uremia and specifically "buy time" for the patient so that proper medical or surgical therapy may be instituted. In acute situations, peritoneal dialysis is the procedure of choice, and is an important adjunct to more conventional treatment for chronic renal disease. It may be useful sometimes even in chronically hemodialyzed patients-for example, when the hemodialysis cannula for one reason or another is inaccessible because of clots, replacement, or infection. It is especially valuable when the hemorrhagic complications of uremia contraindicate hemodialysis treatment. Its use in chronic uremia remains sharply limited in time, but for brief periods chronic peritoneal dialysis appears to be a reasonably satisfactory means of prolonging life while awaiting homotransplant or decision for maintenance hemodialysis therapy.
Cardiac monitoring facilities have been present in teaching hospital centers for over five years. A substantial decrease in mortality has been observed in monitored patients with acute myocardial infarction. The community hospital system offers a challenge to effective monitoring since many physicians care for patients and often many kinds of therapy are used. After 18 months of operation mortality from myocardial infarction was only 16.6 percent in a community hospital monitoring unit where the majority of the emergency care and resuscitation was carried out by nurses. Vital to this success was the use of standing orders for nurses, requirement of privilege to practice within the monitoring facility and acceptance of the nurse as a therapist in emergency situations.Fourteen patients were successfully resuscitated and were later discharged from the hospital. Four of them had ventricular fibrillation from digitalis intoxication. Patients with shock and severe congestive heart failure continue to be a major unsolved clinical problem. The results indicate that the potentially viable patient with serious electrical disturbances can almost invariably be salvaged.
The concentrations of bile salt, lecithin, and cholesterol were determined on each of 66 samples of gall bladder bile from patients with cholesterol gallstones and 25 samples of normal gall bladder bile. When these three constituents were plotted simultaneously on triangular coordinates, a complete separation of the normal and "abnormal" bile was achieved. This separation was the result of an increase in the quantity of cholesterol relative to the amounts of bile salts and lecithin contained in the bile from patients with cholesterol gallstones. An in vitro model system was constructed (on triangular coordinates) that allows prediction of the maximum amount of cholesterol that can be solubilized in solutions containing varying proportions of bile salt and lecithin. When the bile data were compared with the solubility of cholesterol derived from the model system, normal biles were found to be less than saturated with cholesterol, whereas biles from patients with cholesterol gallstones were saturated and in some cases contained insoluble cholesterol in the form of microcrystals. It is suggested that the physical state of bile (i.e., the presence or absence of insoluble cholesterol) is determined by the relative concentrations of bile salt, lecithin, and cholesterol, and the other biliary constituents do not appear to significantly effect the solubility of cholesterol in bile.
Factors involved in the hyperlipidemia of nephrosis have been studied in seven patients. The turnover of triglyceride was measured in plasma very low density lipoproteins after the injection of glycerol-(14)C. The turnover of esterified cholesterol was measured in whole plasma and in very low density lipoproteins after the injection of mevalonic acid-2-(3)H. Urine protein loss was found to be significantly correlated with the plasma concentrations of triglyceride and free cholesterol, suggesting that increasing loss of protein is associated with the formation of larger lipoproteins. Lactescent plasmas were found in the subjects with the greatest protein loss. The turnover rate of triglyceride tended to be higher among subjects with higher than with lower triglyceride concentrations and was on the average higher than among six normotriglyceridemic subjects. However, there was also evidence for decreased clearance of glyceride from plasma. The hypertriglyceridemia of nephrosis appeared to reflect both increased formation of glyceride and decreased removal of glyceride from plasma. The turnover of esterified cholesterol was significantly higher in whole plasma of nephrotic subjects than in normocholesterolemic nonnephrotic patients. Esterified cholesterol turnover in very low density lipoproteins was raised in the two subjects in whom a major part of total esterified cholesterol was carried in this lipoprotein fraction. These studies were repeated in one subject after remission was induced. The cessation of urinary loss of protein was associated with reductions in the concentrations and turnover of triglyceride and esterified cholesterol. The increased turnover of plasma lipids in nephrosis may reflect the general increase in the formation of protein.
Blood from patients with erythrocytosis secondary to arterial hypoxemia due either to congenital heart disease or to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was shown to have a decreased affinity for oxygen; the average oxygen pressure required to produce 50% saturation of hemoglobin with oxygen was 29.8 mm Hg (average normal, 26.3 mm Hg). Such a displacement of the blood oxygen equilibrium curve promotes the release of oxygen from blood to the tissues. Studies were also performed upon blood from a man with complete erythrocyte aplasia who received all of his red cells by transfusion from presumably normal persons. With mild anemia (hematocrit, 28%), the affinity of his blood for oxygen was slightly diminished (an oxygen pressure of 27.0 mm Hg was required to produce 50% saturation of hemoglobin with oxygen). With severe anemia (hematocrit, 13.5%), however, his blood had a markedly decreased oxygen affinity (an oxygen pressure of 29.6 mm Hg was required to produce 50% saturation of hemoglobin with oxygen). We conclude that patients with various conditions characterized by an impairment in the oxygen supply system to tissues respond with a diminished affinity of their blood for oxygen. Although the mechanism which brings about this adaptation is not known, the displacement of the oxygen equilibrium curve is associated with an increase in heme-heme interaction. The decrease in blood oxygen affinity need not occur during erythropoiesis, but may be imposed upon mature circulating red cells.
Parotitis, hemangio-endothelioma and mixed tumors are the most common salivary gland lesions in the pediatric age group. Carcinoma and sarcoma are uncommon. Rapid growth of a tumor and pain suggest malignant change.A conservative non-operative approach is stressed for most cases of chronic parotitis. Scout x-ray films and sialangiographic examination are useful in differentiating an inflammatory lesion from a neoplastic growth. Total parotidectomy is advised if operation is indicated.A case of spontaneous resolution of a hemangioma of the parotid gland is presented. A less aggressive temporizing plan should be considered with these lesions, as the risk of seventh nerve injury in children is considerable. The treatment of choice for a non-inflammatory tumor is surgical excision, for most parotid tumors are radioresistant. Small masses should be completely excised for pathological evaluation. Incisional biopsy may occasionally be indicated in the case of a large diffuse lesion, for it may be inflammatory and total excision unnecessary. Most patients with chronic parotitis came to medical attention because of a non-tender asymptomatic parotid lump or diffuse swelling.
Homocarnosine and carnosine have been identified in bovine brain extracts which are effective in protecting mice against infections by Staphylococcus aureus. These peptides, as well as l-1-methylhistidine, beta-alanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, delta-aminovaleric acid, epsilon-aminocaproic acid, 1-aminomethylcyclohexane-4-carboxylic acid, and anserine, were tested as prophylactic agents against S. aureus infections in C3H and Swiss mice. Histidine and methylhistidine were ineffective in preventing mortality in both mouse strains. Carnosine, anserine, and epsilon-aminocaproic acid were effective in C3H but not in Swiss mice. beta-Alanine and gamma-aminobutyric acid were weakly effective (C3H) or ineffective (Swiss). delta-Aminovaleric and 1-aminomethylcyclohexane-4-carboxylic acid (tested only in Swiss) were somewhat effective in early stages of the infection. Homocarnosine was the best compound and was highly effective in protecting both mouse strains against S. aureus infections by the testing procedure employed.
Several amino-acid esters and amides have been prepared and their toxicological and pharmacological properties have been investigated. Some of the quaternary esters and amides were lethal to mice at doses below 1 mg/kg; this lethality was usually associated with high nicotinic activity. None of the compounds showed high muscarinic activity.2. The cause of death was asphyxia due to paralysis of the respiratory muscles, but at higher doses there was also failure of the medullary respiratory centre.3. Administration of sub-lethal doses of nicotine to mice was shown to protect the animals from subsequent lethal doses of nicotine. The amino-acid esters did not share this property, nor was there any cross-protection between nicotine and these esters.4. The possible nature of the nicotinic receptor is discussed with reference to these compounds and other known nicotinic agents. A tentative suggestion is made that nicotinic activity can result from a two-point interaction between the drug and the receptor.
Three cases of intussusception in adults were observed within a period of six months in a small general hospital. All the patients were over 65 years old and all were admitted to hospital with intermittent cramping abdominal pains. None appeared to be in acute distress. In all three, body temperature, pulse rate and hemogram were within normal limits. Diagnosis was made preoperatively after barium enema studies. Bowel resection with end-to-end anastomosis was done in all three cases, in two because of gangrenous bowel. The site of intussusception was jejunojejunal in one case, ileocecal in another and colorectal in the third; and the cause in all cases was tumor, benign in two cases, malignant in one. The patients recovered uneventfully except for incisional abscess and diarrhea of seven days' duration in one. In a review of literature it was found that the clinical features in these three cases closely paralleled those of other cases of adult intussusception reported in this country.
A total of 78 acromegalic patients were studied before and after treatment by yttrium-90 needle implantation.Among the untreated patients 16% had a borderline or raised serum calcium. In half of these patients the serum calcium fell to normal after remission of their acromegaly. In the others the hypercalcaemia was due to associated proved or probable hyperparathyroidism. A downward trend of the serum calcium was noted even in the normocalcaemic patients with remission of their disease.Only 20% of untreated patients had a raised serum phosphate, and follow-up showed this measurement to be a poor index of disease activity.Net calcium absorption and calcium balances in five patients in this series and 12 others from the literature were essentially normal for their given level of calcium intake. No patient showed definite radiological evidence of osteoporosis and vertebral fractures.Bone uptake rate of calcium-47 and stable strontium was raised in the untreated state in all nine patients studied. The 24-hour strontium space was raised in 73% of untreated patients and fell to normal after treatment in all the retested patients in whom it was high initially.
One hundred and forty-one randomly selected surgical patients, aged 35 years or over, were studied preoperatively, followed through their operative procedures, and reassessed during the first post-operative week for evidence of myocardial ischaemia associated with surgical operations under general anaesthesia. Of these patients 38% were found to have preoperative clinical evidence of heart disease, hypertension, or diabetes; 45% had abnormal preoperative E.C.G. patterns.Three patients experienced myocardial infarction during or within 36 hours of operation, all of the occult type; all were in the preoperative abnormal groups. Non-specific postoperative E.C.G. changes were equally common in the groups of patients with normal or abnormal preoperative electrocardiograms.A relationship existed between a rise in serum lactic dehydrogenase (L.D.H.) concentration and the field of the operation, but the diagnosis of infarction was not confused provided serum L.D.H. isoenzyme patterns and a rise in serum aspartate aminotransferase (S.G.O.T.) levels were consistent with the diagnosis.
The management of the patient with mycosis fungoides requires a variety of therapeutic modalities depending on the stage of the disease. Topically applied nitrogen mustard in the early stages of the disease has a beneficital palliative effect. The effects of nitrogen mustard paintings in the later course of the disease have not been previously reported. In the present study, topically applied nitrogen mustard solution was used to control recurrences of mycosis fungoides following electron beam therapy in 11 patients. Each patient received whole body applications of freshly prepared 10 mg per 50 ml solution of mechlorethamine hydrochloride (a nitrogen mustard) in water daily for seven days. In all patients pruritus disappeared within the first week and ulcers and plaques improved or disappeared in two to four weeks. The seven-day courses of mechlorethamine paintings were repeated as recurrences were noted. Mycosis fungoides was controlled by this therapy for periods ranging up to 15 months. Absence of systemic toxicity, a low incidence of cutaneous irritation and application of the treatments at home make topical nitrogen mustard a useful adjunct in the management of the late stages of mycosis fungoides.
One hundred patients with suspected coronary heart disease were studied by vectorcardiography (VCG), electrocardiography (ECG), and coronary arteriography. Twenty-eight patients had VCG evidence of anterior infarction; 26 of this group had severe narrowing or obstruction of the left anterior descending branch. Five did not have anterior infarction by ECG. Twenty-seven patients had VCG evidence of diaphragmatic infarction; 25 of this group had severe narrowing of the right coronary artery or the left circumflex branch or both. Six of the 27 did not have ECG evidence of diaphragmatic infarction. Twelve patients had VCG evidence of posterior infarction whereas it was detected by ECG in only two. Only six of the 12, however, had severe narrowing of the nutrient arteries to the posterobasal part of the myocardium. Thirteen patients with infarction had severe narrowing but not total obstruction of a coronary artery. On the other hand, 15 patients had total obstruction of a major coronary vessel without actual infarction.
Studies have been made of movement of various macromolecules into and out of the pleural space of guinea pigs during the course of a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to purified protein derivative (PPD), and a passively transferred immediate hypersensitivity reaction to ovalbumin. While the immediate hypersensitivity reaction transiently alters vascular permeability as shown by increased movement of macromolecules into the chest, the delayed hypersensitivity reaction is marked by a decreased capacity to resorb macromolecules from the pleural space. The data suggest that the two hypersensitivity reactions may be distinguished by these physiologic differences. Additional data from studies of a chemically induced pleural effusion in these animals suggest that some type of outflow obstruction is necessary for the development of effusion, but that the outflow defect caused by the irritating chemical is based on a different mechanism than that seen during the delayed hypersensitivity reaction.
The effect of variations in the concentration of free fatty acids (FFA) on the binding of thyroid hormones in serum has been studied in 20 euthyroid subjects and 19 thyrotoxic patients. In the euthyroid group, neither the pronounced decreases in FFA induced by the oral administration of glucose or the intravenous administration of nicotinic acid, nor the marked increases in FFA which followed the administration of nicotinic acid or 2-deoxyglucose were accompanied by significant changes in the per cent of free thyroxine (T(4)), the protein-bound iodine (PBI), the per cent of endogenous T(4) bound by the T(4)-binding globulin (TBG) or T(4)-binding prealbumin (TBPA), or the resin sponge uptake of triiodothyronine (T(3)). In the thyrotoxic group, the decline in FFA concentration which followed glucose administration was accompanied by slight, but statistically significant, decreases in the PBI and both the per cent and absolute concentration of free T(4). Such changes might have been indicative of an increased intensity of T(4) binding secondary to the decrease in FFA. The serum PBI was decreased, however, a change contrary to that which would be expected to follow an increase in the intensity of T(4) binding. Furthermore, comparable changes in free T(4) and PBI did not accompany the decrease in FFA induced by the administration of insulin. Neither manipulation significantly affected the protein binding of endogenous T(4) or the resin sponge uptake of T(3). It is concluded that within a wide physiological range of concentration, FFA do not significantly influence the transport of T(4) in the serum of euthyroid subjects. In the serum of patients with thyrotoxicosis, FFA may have a slight effect on the binding of T(4), but the nature of any such effect is obscure, since parallel, rather than contrary changes in PBI and the proportion of free T(4) followed alterations in FFA concentration.
Twenty-six, ten-week-old mink were infected by force feeding by pipette 2 ml of a tissue suspension containing a Wisconsin strain of mink enteritis virus. Four days later, diarrhea and partial or complete loss of appetite developed simultaneously in all of the animals. Squinting and occasional vomiting were also observed. By the sixth day after inoculation, all of the mink were anorectic and weak. Anorexia persisted for 48 to 96 hours. Diarrhea and vomiting continued until the eighth to ninth day after exposure. For the first two days after the appearance of diarrhea, the feces contained large quantities of mucus and intestinal casts were seen frequently in the droppings. Thereafter, the feces consisted mostly of yellowish green, watery fluid and contained no casts. Some of the animals died on the eighth day after infection. Those which survived were severely dehydrated and debilitated, but resumed eating and achieved complete clinical recovery within the next five to six days.Leukopenia, i.e., total leukocyte count of less than 5,000 cells per mm(3) of blood, was found in seven of nine mink examined during the height of the disease. Leukopenic animals were deficient in both lymphocytes and neutrophils.
Angiotensin infusion evokes marked increases in aldosterone secretion in primary aldosteronism and little change in secondary aldosteronism. The low plasma renin activity of primary aldosteronism and the elevated plasma renin activity of secondary aldosteronism are thought to account for this differential response. The effect of angiotensin on aldosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone secretion was studied during adrenal vein catheterization in seven patients with primary aldosteronism (whose plasma renin activity had been elevated following spironolactone therapy), one hypertensive patient with normal plasma renin activity and normal aldosterone secretion, two patients with secondary aldosteronism who had elevated plasma renin activity, and one anephric patient whose plasma renin activity was Adrenal venous aldosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone were measured before and after a ten min sub-pressor angiotensin infusion. The cells of the aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA) respond to small increases in plasma angiotensin with large increases in secretion of aldosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone. The dose of angiotensin capable of evoking this response from the aldosterone-producing adenoma produces little or no change in the secretion of the steroids from nontumorous glands. The augmentation of aldosterone secretion, induced by angiotensin, in primary aldosteronism is due solely to increased secretion by the adenoma and not by the contralateral zona glomerulosa. The increased sensitivity of the aldosterone-producing adenoma is characteristic of the tumor. This response is independent of fluctuations in endogenous plasma renin activity. This sensitivity is not blunted by high plasma renin activity, nor is it a function of tumor mass for the effect is observed in aldosterone-producing adenomas regardless of size. ACTH injection after angiotensin infusion resulted in a marked increase in aldosterone concentration in the effluent from the nontumorous adrenal, but was not capable of producing further increases in aldosterone concentration in the effluent from the APA. In view of this exquisite sensitivity to infused angiotensin, it may be that the small variations in endogenous plasma renin activity that have been observed in primary aldosteronism may be capable of evoking large changes in aldosterone secretion in patients with aldosterone-producing adenomas.
The mechanism responsible for the hyperdynamic circulatory state in hyperthyroidism has not been defined. Although certain cardiac manifestations resemble those caused by excessive adrenergic stimulation, recent evidence suggests that thyroid hormone exerts an effect on the heart that is independent of the adrenergic system. Since the inotropic and chronotropic effects of norepinephrine appear to be mediated by activation of adenyl cyclase, the possibility that thyroxine and triiodothyronine are also capable of activating adenyl cyclase was examined in the particulate fraction of cat heart homogenates.L-thyroxine and L-triiodothyronine increased the conversion of adenosine triphosphate-(32)P (ATP-(32)P) to cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate-(32)P (3',5'-AMP-(32)P) by 60 and 45% respectively (P < 0.01). A variety of compounds structurally related to the thyroid hormones, but devoid of thyromimetic activity did not activate adenyl cyclase: these included 3,5-diiodo-L-thyronine, L-thyronine, 3,5-diiodotyrosine, monoiodotyrosine, and tyrosine. D-thyroxine activated adenyl cyclase and half maximal activity was identical to that of the L-isomer. Although the beta adrenergic blocking agent propranolol abolished norepinephrine-induced activation of adenyl cyclase, it failed to alter activation caused by thyroxine. When maximal concentrations of L-thyroxine (5 x 10(-6) moles/liter) and norepinephrine (5 x 10(-5) moles/liter) were incubated together, an additive effect on cyclic 3',5'-AMP production resulted. THIS INVESTIGATION DEMONSTRATES: thyroid hormone is capable of activating myocardial adenyl cyclase in vitro and this effect is not mediated by the beta adrenergic receptor. Moreover, the additive effects of norepinephrine and thyroxine suggest that at least two separate adenyl cyclase systems are present in the heart, one responsive to norepinephrine, the other to thyroid hormone. These findings are compatible with the hypothesis that the cardiac manifestations of the hyperthyroid state may, in part, be caused by the direct activation of myocardial adenyl cyclase by thyroid hormone.
Pituitary and gonadal function was studied in seven chromatin-negative men, ages 15-27 yr, with retarded sexual and somatic development, skeletal anomalies, and hyposmia. These hyposmic patients were compared with normal men, prepuberal boys and hypogonadal patients with hypopituitarism. The urinary follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels of hyposmic subjects were the same as those of normal boys and hypopituitary patients but significantly lower than those of normal men. Clomiphene citrate did not cause an increase in plasma FSH and LH levels in either hypogonadal group as it does in normal men. In contrast to hypopituitary patients, thyroid and adrenocortical function and release of growth hormone in the hyposmic subjects were normal. The plasma testosterone levels were equally low in prepuberal, hypopituitary, and hyposmic patients but were increased to a greater extent by human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) treatment in prepuberal and hypopituitary subjects than in the hyposmic patients. Prolonged treatment with HCG has failed to return plasma testosterone levels to normal in two hyposmic patients. These observations suggest that there are defects of both pituitary and Leydig cell function in men with the syndrome of hypogonadism, skeletal anomalies, and hyposmia. They have impaired secretion of FSH and LH and a Leydig cell insensitivity to gonadotropin.
The ganglion blocking agents, chlorisondamine, pentamethonium, mecamylamine, decamethonium and hexamethonium all block nicotine extensor convulsions when administered intraventricularly in mice. Tetraethylammonium was inactive.2. For the intraventricular route, there is a relationship between ganglionic blocking potency and blocking of nicotine extensor convulsions. Indirect evidence suggests that the site(s) of action of nicotine extensor convulsions and lethality is central in origin and associated with brain areas near the ventricles.3. When ganglion blocking agents are given orally, subcutaneously or intravenously varying degrees of protection can be observed probably depending on factors such as whether or not the drugs cross the blood-brain barrier, absorption, etc., and the effectiveness in protecting mice from nicotine is not related to ganglionic blocking potency.4. Atropine and morphine given intraventricularly or subcutaneously did not protect mice from the LD95 of nicotine. Chlorpromazine gave very erratic results and phenobarbitone was effective subcutaneously and to a lesser extent intraventricularly.
Metabolic bone disease occurring in renal or intestinal disorders has been reviewed with particular reference to etiological factors. Hyperparathyroidism is seen as a recurring cycle of renal damage-hyperphosphatemia-hypocalcemia-parathyroid stimulation-mobilization of bone calcium and phosphate-renal tubular phosphate rejection. In intestinal cases, the initial stimulus is presumably hypocalcemia. Osteomalacia is seen as resulting from phosphate depletion for the following reasons:1. Experimentally, rickets results from dietary phosphate restriction in rats.2. Such rickets is not prevented by the presence of normally adequate amounts of dietary vitamin D, and may therefore be termed "resistant" in the clinical sense.3. Osteomalacia or rickets in intestinal malabsorption and renal tubular disorders is associated with hypophosphatemia due to excessive fecal or urinary loss.4. Renal tubular rickets has been healed by oral phosphate loading in some studies.5. Acidosis may induce osteomalacic changes, experimentally and clinically (for example, in uretero-sigmoidostomy). Reversal of systemic acidosis with oral bicarbonate has resulted in phosphate retention and a rising serum phosphate in one such case.6. Preliminary data from analysis of full-thickness bone biopsy in two osteomalacic patients shows a significant reduction in calcium and phosphate content.7. Despite the hyperphosphatemia of azotemic renal failure, over-all phosphate depletion may be present in this situation also due to: * Diminished dietary phosphate in low protein diets * Nausea and vomiting * Occasional diarrhea * The use of oral phosphatebinding antacids * Perpetuation of urinary phosphate losses by reduction in proportion of tubular reabsorbed phosphate (secondary hyperparathyroidism) and possibly high filtered load per nephron * Repeated losses of phosphate to bath fluid during dialysis.
The last 10 years have seen great activity in the investigation of cerebral catecholamines, particular attention having been paid to dopamine. The low dopamine content in the basal ganglia and in the urine of patients with Parkinson's disease led to the logical use of the precursor DOPA in the treatment of this disorder. Between 1961 and 1966, both the oral and the intravenous routes were utilized and some effects were noted upon akinesia and rigidity. The doses then used were low and the results remained somewhat controversial. When higher oral levels of L-dopa were introduced, the beneficial action of L-dopa upon parkinsonian symptoms and signs was proved beyond doubt, but there came to light a number of troublesome side effects, the worst of which were hypotension and a variety of abnormal involuntary movements. Recently, new approaches to the therapy have been tried and the sum total of these observations is to challenge our peace of mind regarding a seemingly logical chain of events. We are convinced that such second thoughts will eventually result in better and safer methods of treating this too frequent and disabling neurological disorder.
In a sliding hiatus hernia, the esophagogastric junction is above the diaphragm. It is called a sliding hernia because anatomically it resembles a sliding inguinal hernia and not because of an upward and downward motion through the esophageal hiatus. Symptoms may arise from the hernia because it becomes distended or bleeds; much more commonly the hernia is said to produce gastroesophageal reflux with its secondary complications. However, certain clinical and manometric data suggest that the hernia may be an associated and inconsequential finding so that reflux probably depends upon the lower esophageal sphincter efficiency rather than the presence of a hernia. The role of the phrenoesophageal ligament and its actual existence are still debated. A lower esophageal ring cannot be assumed to indicate that a hernia is present; more than likely the ring marks the upper limits of the lower esophageal sphincter. Although inadequate data are available concerning the natural history of the symptom complex attributed to a hernia, in a large proportion of such patients, symptoms become mild or may disappear on so-called medical therapy. Consequently, the results of surgical therapy need to be cautiously evaluated.
Highly purified staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) is known to accumulate rapidly within the kidneys of experimental animals. The present study was performed to determine whether the predominant renal localization of SEB was of fundamental pathophysiologic importance in the development of lethal shock after the intravenous administration of this toxin to monkeys. Eight bilaterally nephrectomized Macaca mulatta given 10 mug of SEB per kg survived for an average time period less than half that of nephrectomized control animals (P < 0.001). Their survival time, however, was similar to that of control, sham-nephrectomized monkeys given an equal amount of SEB. Thus, no evidence was obtained to suggest that the kidney converted purified SEB to a more potent toxin. The glomerular filtration and proximal tubule cell accumulation of SEB possibly occurred as a nonspecific consequence of its molecular size, and such localization within the kidney might have served to reduce the quantity of SEB reaching some other site of toxic activity. Similar pathological and clinical findings were demonstrated in monkeys from both experimental and control groups; these could not be ascribed to SEB alone.
(1) Synthesis of deoxythymidine by either direct transfer of deoxyribosyl to thymine (pyrimidine deoxyribosyltransferase) or by a coupled deoxynucleoside phosphorylase mechanism is approximately twofold greater with normal leukocyte extracts (55 to 88% granulocytes) than with extracts prepared from leukocytes obtained from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. Activities in lymphocytes (normal or leukemic) are one-fifth the activity of normal granulocytes.(2) The lower activity in chronic myelogenous leukemia remains at 50% of normal even when patients are in hematologic remission with a normal per cent mature granulocytes in the peripheral blood.(3) The leukemic enzyme could not be distinguished from the normal by pH optima, thermal stability, or kinetic properties. The Km's for the deoxyribosyl acceptor and deoxyribosyl donors were identical for both enzymes. Both are subject to substrate inhibition by thymine and to inhibition by purine bases with similar Ki's. In addition, the transferase component of both the leukemic and the normal cell enzyme is activated by phosphate and arsenate. It appears, therefore, that there is no qualitative difference between the enzyme obtained from leukocytes of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia and the enzyme obtained from normal leukocytes, suggesting that the difference in total cell activity is due to an actual decrease in amount of enzyme in chronic myelogenous leukemia or to a mixed cell population, one with a normal quantity of enzyme and the other with little or no active enzyme.(4) In both the normal cell and the leukemic cell extracts, transferase and phosphorylase activities could not be separated. The ratio of the two activities remained constant over a 140- and a 230-fold purification in normal and leukemic cell extracts, respectively. These and other observations indicate that transferase and phosphorylase activities are associated with the same protein.(5) The metabolism of pyrimidine and purine deoxynucleosides is similar for normal and leukemic cells. Catabolism of all deoxynucleosides tested was by direct phosphorolysis, except for deoxyadenosine which required initial deamination to deoxyinosine before phosphorolysis. In contrast to the greater rates of pyrimidine deoxynucleoside synthesis and cleavage with normal leukocyte extracts, the rates of purine deoxynucleoside synthesis and cleavage were approximately twofold greater with extracts prepared from cells of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. There was no significant difference in the rate of phosphorolytic cleavage of pyrimidine nucleosides (uridine) between the CML and normal leukocyte extracts.
Patients with acute leukemia were given repeated cycles consisting of infusions of methotrexate followed by "rescue" with folinic acid. Peripheral blood leukemic cells were harvested from patients before cyclical treatment, and the rates of incorporation of thymidine and of deoxyuridine into deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) were measuared in vitro. There was no relationship between the pretreatment incorporation of either deoxynucleoside into DNA and the clinical response to therapy. Methotrexate suppressed deoxyuridine incorporation into DNA by the leukemic blasts in vitro, but the patients whose cells were most sensitive to this effect did not necessarily go into remission when treated. Leukemic cells were sampled during methotrexate infusions and the deoxynucleoside incorporation rates were determined. Thymidine incorporation into DNA was variably affected. If, by the end of the first infusion, it remained elevated, remission rarely followed, whereas if it was below the pretreatment value, remission was much more likely. In all cases, deoxyuridine incorporation was suppressed during the infusion. The greatest suppression occurred in patients who went on to remission, but the suppression did not correlate with that expected from pretreatment in vitro tests unless due weight was given to the concomitant effects of the methotrexate therapy on thymidine incorporation. Leukemic blasts surviving successive cycles of therapy became progressively more resistant to the suppressing effects of methotrexate in vitro. This resistance became especially marked in the blasts of patients who did not go into remission. During methotrexate infusions, inhibition of leukemic cell dihydrofolate reductase activity was greatest in blasts of patients whose disease subsequently remitted.
Chloroquine-(14)C was used to study the processes which concentrate chloroquine in mouse red blood cells infected with chloroquine-sensitive or with chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium berghei. The initial rates of uptake and exchange of chloroquine-(14)C were both too fast to measure, yet large concentration gradients were maintained by the cells. When red blood cells were exposed to 10(-8)M chloroquine at 22 degrees C, with pH between 7.2 and 7.4, steady-state gradients of chloroquine-(14)C were approximately 600:1 (cells:medium) for cells infected with chloroquine-sensitive parasites, 100:1 for cells comparably infected with chloroquine-resistant parasites, and 14:1 for uninfected cells. The processes responsible for these gradients were saturable, in agreement with the proposal of chloroquine binding to cellular constituents. No degradation of chloroquine was detected. The major difference between the chloroquine-sensitive and -resistant parasites was deficiency of high-affinity binding of chloroquine by cells infected with chloroquine-resistant parasites. This deficiency explains the reduced ability of chloroquine-resistant parasites to concentrate chloroquine, and it suggests that chloroquine resistance is due to a decrease in the number, affinity, or accessibility of chloroquine receptor sites on a constituent of the malaria parasite.
Typhoid vaccines, both heat-inactivated vaccines prepared in liquid and solid media and alcohol-inactivated dry vaccines, frequently possess sensitizing properties. Heat-inactivated vaccines prepared in liquid media have higher sensitizing activities than those prepared in agar and alcohol-inactivated vaccines grown in liquid media under aeration.By inducing a Shwartzman phenomenon in rabbits, it is possible to characterize the sensitizing activity of each vaccine lot, and of its components, in comparison with a reference vaccine. The sensitizing activity of the supernatant fluid is as high as that of the whole vaccine but the washed microbic cells have a low activity. There is a marked correlation between the immunogenic activity, the toxicity and the sensitizing properties of the whole vaccine and its components-supernatant fluid and washed cells.Minimum requirements for permitted amounts of toxicity and sensitizing activity of typhoid vaccines can be formulated only after further information is obtained on the correlation between data from laboratory tests and assays of toxicity of vaccines in human subjects.
A period of direct contact with a concentration of 20 mug/ml or less of either famotine (1-(p-chlorophenoxymethyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline hydrochloride) or memotine (1-(p-methoxyphenoxymethyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline hydrochloride) inactivates myxoviruses and paramyxoviruses. This activity has been confirmed in organ culture prepared from dog trachea and infected with an influenza A2 virus.Consistent protection of mice infected intranasally with influenza A/PR/8 has not been obtained. Other viruses causing respiratory disease in man, in particular some rhinoviruses, are susceptible during replication to the action of these compounds. Both compounds are of low toxicity and well tolerated by man.Trials in man have embraced challenge, prophylactic and therapeutic studies with both oral and local administration. Challenge studies with influenza A2 and B viruses have demonstrated that with some strains there is in the drug-treated groups a reduction in the incidence of evidence of infection, sometimes significantly, and also a reduction of clinical symptoms, the effect towards influenza B virus being the greater. Nasal instillation of famotine reduced the incidence of clinical symptoms only following challenge with influenza B virus and rhinovirus type Oral prophylactic trials have been inconclusive, although the nasal instillation of famotine did reduce somewhat the incidence of symptoms in a small outbreak of influenza A2/Hong Kong/68. The number of therapeutic trials has been too few and too small to evaluate conclusively the role of these agents in therapy of acute respiratory illness.
Leprosy, particularly lepromatous leprosy, is associated with a multitude of (auto) immune aberrations, and its clinical features also have much in common with the collagen diseases. Immunopathological studies of the 2 groups of diseases may thus elucidate the basic mechanisms of both.The reported evidence for a genetically determined hyporeactivity of cell-mediated (CM) immunity in lepromatous subjects is reviewed; most, but not all, of the findings fit such a hypothesis well. The possibility remains that the observed hyporeactivities may be secondary to direct effects of Mycobacterium leprae. Evidence for a general hyperreactivity of the antibody-mediated (AM) immunity in lepromatous leprosy is then reviewed and considered to be fragmentary.The concept and general criteria of autoimmunity are discussed briefly and the high incidence in lepromatous leprosy of various (auto)immune aberrations, resembling those in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and in rheumatoid arthritis is reviewed. Although autoantibodies are not likely to be directly deleterious to the host, immune complexes containing autoantibodies may be pathogenic.Mixed cryoimmunoglobulins, consisting of 2 (IgG-IgM or IgG-IgA) or 3 immunoglobulins, and occasionally also containing measurable amounts of complement components, have recently been encountered in SLE and its variants and also in a number of microbial diseases with autoimmune features (syphilis, streptococcal nephritis and endocarditis, mononucleosis, Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia). They may represent circulating immune complexes, analogous to the IgM (IgA) rheumatoid factors in combination with their IgG reactants. In leprosy also, the existence of pathogenic immune complexes is indirectly suggested by mixed cryoglobulinemia and further by a number of other features reviewed in this article.
A clinical investigation into the therapeutic value of vitamin E (tocopherol) in certain dermatological conditions of obscure etiology led to the incidental observation that this compound produced beneficial effects in some of the patients who were suffering from frequent and severe nocturnal leg cramps. Nearly all of the patients with leg cramps received prompt and gratifying relief from their symptoms while taking vitamin E in the form of d, alpha-tocopheryl acetate, 100 I.U. three times a day before meals. The group included 24 private patients with leg cramps and two with the "restless legs" syndrome, probably a related condition. One of the patients with leg and foot cramps also had severe nocturnal rectal cramps which were also relieved. Nocturnal leg cramps constitute a relatively common complaint in the general practice of medicine and may be very distressing to the patient. Not only is the cause obscure and the treatment relatively unsatisfactory, but even its proper medical name, systremma (anything twisted up together), is unknown to most physicians.
Hyperthyroidism may be associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis. Two cases are presented demonstrating intermittent attacks of flaccid paralysis associated with clinical symptoms, signs and laboratory findings of hyperthyroidism. During an attack, one patient had a serum potassium of 2.1 mEq. per litre.Various factors such as trauma, exposure to cold, excessive carbohydrate ingestion and certain medications have been stated to precipitate an episode of paralysis. Attacks may range from mild weakness to generalized flaccid paralysis with loss of deep tendon reflexes. Several reported patients have died owing to cardiac arrest or respiratory paralysis.During attacks, the serum potassium is usually in the range of 2.2 to 3.2 mEq. per litre. It is postulated that a metabolic abnormality affecting the muscle-cell membrane can occur in the hyperthyroid state resulting in a shift of potassium to the intracellular position, thus producing a situation of hyperpolarization of the muscle-cell membrane which in turn alters the muscle contractibility.The importance of recognizing the unusual association of hypokalemic periodic paralysis with hyperthyroidism is stressed because, with successful treatment of the hyperthyroidism, the episodes of paralysis disappear.
Three patients with idiopathic parkinsonism and six normal subjects were infused over a 4 hr period with 104.6 muc of dopamine-2-(14)C (3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, 3-hydroxytyramine),(1) the immediate precursor in the synthesis of the sympathetic neurohormone, noradrenaline (norepinephrine). Urine was collected during the infusion period, 0-2 hr, 2-4 hr, 4-8 hr, 8-24 hr, and thereafter for 4 additional days. Using a technique herein described, the various metabolic and biosynthetic products of dopamine, including noradrenaline and its metabolic products, were separated, identified, and their radioactivity measured. The metabolic pattern of dopamine in the normal subject was compared to that of the three parkinsonism patients. The results indicate that in idiopathic parkinsonism there is a decrease in the recovery of free radioactive noradrenaline in the urine following an infusion of dopamine-2-(14)C and a slight shift toward dopamine metabolism. The latter is reflected by an increase in the following metabolites of dopamine: 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and the conjugates of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethanol and dopamine.
In the present study, cirrhosis of the liver was found in one of six cases of transfusional siderosis. The relationship between iron overload and cirrhosis is discussed and the suggestion is made that factors other than iron deposition may have been responsible for the hepatic fibrosis. Three patients with a greater degree of iron overload, and for a longer period, did not develop fibrosis or cirrhosis. The possibility remains that iron absorbed from the gut and stored in excess without having passed through the haemoglobin molecule or the reticuloendothelial system may be toxic, as cases have been reported in which cirrhosis of the liver was attributed to prolonged iron medication. The cirrhosis in idiopathic haemochromatosis may be due to lack of an unknown hepatic cell enzyme, as in galactosaemia, and the increased iron absorption may be a concomitant finding. Transfusional or secondary haemochromatosis is not a definite entity, and the liver cirrhosis is probably due to causes other than the excess deposition of haemosiderin.
Two patients suffering from aneurysms of the internal carotid artery simulating pituitary tumours are reported. One of these was a 17-year-old boy with a mycotic aneurysm of the right internal carotid artery causing failure of growth and pubertal maturation. The second was a 53-year-old woman with a left internal carotid artery aneurysm, probably of atherosclerotic origin, who had evidence of anterior pituitary insufficiency.In both cases there was paresis of extraocular muscles and one patient had bitemporal hemianopsia. While lateral radiographs of the skull suggested intrasellar calcification in each case, further roentgenological investigation established that this calcification was actually extrasellar, and carotid arteriograms demonstrated the presence of an internal carotid aneurysm in each case. Investigations of the endocrine system confirmed the presence of anterior pituitary insufficiency in both patients, and diabetes insipidus became evident in one patient after cortisone therapy was commenced.This lesion, while rare, may be difficult to differentiate from a pituitary tumour. It is likely that this syndrome depends on aneurysmal expansion to the region of the sella turcica with compression of the pituitary gland itself, as well as the optic fibres.
The effect of desferrioxamine is examined in more than 100 patients with liver disease, including haemochromatosis, using the differential ferrioxamine test. The procedure gives a reasonably accurate estimate of the size of the iron stores, as determined by multiple venesection, in patients with idiopathic haemochromatosis. Since desferrioxamine is not specific for storage iron, unequivocally abnormal results are not obtained unless the iron load exceeds about 2.3 g. In other forms of liver disease the effect of desferrioxamine is generally increased compared with that in controls. The results show no correlation with the serum iron level or the degree of hepatic siderosis. High values are usual in the presence of jaundice and overlap the range found in untreated haemochromatosis, adding to other evidence that desferrioxamine can derive iron from a hyperchelatable source unrelated to the stores. It is concluded that in liver diseases other than haemochromatosis the results of the test do not reliably reflect body storage iron content.
An oral calcium-loading test suitable for infants is described and the usual response defined. In four acute cases of idiopathic hypercalcaemia a high and sustained rise in serum calcium occurred, suggestive of hyperabsorption and consistent with a vitamin-D-like effect. In four further infants with a milder illness suggestive of hypercalcaemia the fasting calcium levels were not grossly raised, but the test produced an exaggerated hypercalcaemic response. In this type of patient the test is more sensitive in the diagnosis of idiopathic hypercalcaemia than isolated measurements of serum calcium, especially if these are taken in the fasting state. Five patients on treatment and three whose treatment had been discontinued (but who subsequently relapsed or made a poor recovery) showed abnormal loading tests at a time when fasting calcium levels were normal. In two cases full recovery from the disease was associated with reversion of the test to normal. The test can therefore be used to indicate activity of the disease and consequently as a guide to therapy. In two cases a persistently abnormal loading test was associated with a poor long-term prognosis.
Using rats of the Lewis and BN (Ag-B locus incompatible) isogenic strains, a comparative study has been made of the capacity to prevent or mitigate the development of runt disease with: lymph node cell suspensions from normal adult BN rats, node cells, or serum from donors sensitized against Lewis tissue antigens, or heterologous anti-lymphocyte serum (ALS) raised in rabbits against rat thymocytes. Following a standard intravenous or intraperitoneal inoculation of 20 x 10(6) Lewis node cells into neonatal BN hosts, there are cutaneous manifestations of runt disease within 11-15 days and death invariably takes place within 20 days. However, complete protection is afforded by administration of a similar number of normal BN node cells via a different vein, or admixed with the otherwise harmful Lewis node cells. However, timing of the administration was crucially important-precedence or delay by as little as 4 hr resulted in a great impairment of protection. When the inoculations of the two cell suspensions were separated by 24 hr, no protection was afforded. These and other observations suggested that a necessary condition for protection of the hosts by unsensitized isologous cells requires that they establish a prompt and intimate confrontation with the homologous target cells. At the same dosage level, suspensions of node cells from sensitized isologous donors were much more effective therapeutically, saving the lives of 92% of treated subjects when administered after a delay of 3 days, and of 19% when the delay was 4 or 5 days. Of the various immunotherapeutic agents studied, daily injections of 0.2 ml of isoantiserum gave the best results, and could totally reverse the course of the disease even when initiated at age 10-13 days and subjects already presented symptoms. ALS, although inferior to isoantiserum at the dosage levels tested, proved to be superior to sensitized isologous cells as a protective agent, since the initiation of daily injections after delays of 6 or 8 days were still effective. The observations that delayed treatments of infant rats with isoantisera or ALS resulted in complete recoveries sustain the thesis that the lesions responsible for the fatal outcome of runt diseases are not inflicted at a very early stage. The efficacy of both isoantisera and ALS as a means of inhibiting the progression of homologous disease also suggests that they may have therapeutic value in situations where this condition is encountered.
The effects of an oral administration of carbon tetrachloride on various liver microsomal and supernatant components were studied 1hr. and 2hr. after dosing. The modifications of such early changes resulting from a concomitant administration of promethazine together with the carbon tetrachloride were also investigated. The microsomal components studied were: cytochromes P-450 and b(5); inorganic pyrophosphatase; NADH- and NADPH-cytochrome c reductases; NADH- and NADPH-neotetrazolium reductases; a lipid-peroxidation system associated with the oxidation of NADPH and stimulated by ADP and Fe(2+). NAD- and NADP- DT-diaphorases were measured in the supernatant solution remaining after isolation of liver microsomes, and the distribution of RNA phosphorus between the microsomes and supernatant solution was also determined. Carbon tetrachloride produced a rapid fall in inorganic pyrophosphatase activity, a rather slower decrease in cytochrome P-450 content of the microsomes and small increases in the activities of NADH-cytochrome c reductase and neotetrazolium reductases. The activities of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, the NADPH-ADP/Fe(2+)-linked lipid-peroxidation system, DT-diaphorases and the content of cytochrome b(5) in the microsomes were unchanged. There was also a loss of RNA phosphorus from the microsomes into the supernatant solution. The RNA phosphorus redistribution, the decrease in inorganic pyrophosphatase and the increases in neotetrazolium reductase activities were at least partially prevented by a concomitant dosing with promethazine. However, the decrease in cytochrome P-450 was not affected by promethazine treatment. These early changes are discussed in terms of the liver necrosis produced by carbon tetrachloride and which is greatly retarded in its onset by the administration of promethazine.
The onset of the secretion of acid from the stomach of rats during insulin-induced hypoglycaemia has been found to correspond to a mean plasma glucose concentration of 72 mg/100 ml. (equivalent to a blood glucose concentration of 44 mg/100 ml.).2. Infusions of the non-metabolizable sugar, 3-O-methylglucose, into rats with denervated adrenal glands caused a large and sustained rise in the gastric acid output. This gastric acid secretion could be prevented by prior vagotomy or stopped, when previously established, by cutting the vagi or by the administration of glucose.3. A consistent relationship was demonstrated between the plasma concentration of glucose and the total concentration of glucoses (glucose plus 3-O-methylglucose) in the plasma at the onset of gastric acid secretion during the infusion of 3-O-methylglucose into these rats. The theoretical basis for this relationship is discussed.4. 3-O-methylglucose did not cause the release of gastric acid when infused into rats with intact sympathetic nervous systems owing to the effects of the secretion of adrenaline provoked by this agent.5. The qualitative and quantitative similarities between the factors governing both the secretion of gastric acid and the release of adrenaline in the absence of a sufficiency of metabolizable glucose are discussed. It is suggested that the reactions of both these systems under such circumstances are determined by chemoreceptors which possess identical characteristics.
Investigations using ammonium citrate-(15)N and urea-(15)N showed that children in the acute stage of kwashiorkor and marasmus receiving a diet of adequate protein content retained a considerable percentage of the label from both compounds. Excretion of both total (15)N and urea-(15)N was subnormal and elimination was virtually completed 36 hr after administration of the isotope. During recovery from kwashiorkor total (15)N excretion had approached normal a month after commencement of rehabilitation. Urea-(15)N excretion was still slightly subnormal after 3 months. In marasmus urea-(15)N formed a normal proportion of total (15)N excretion after 1 month, although total (15)N excretion then was still low. Ammonia nitrogen was retained to a greater extent than urea nitrogen in all cases. As it is known that a considerable amount of urea is degraded to ammonia in the gastrointestinal tract, it seems probable that urea nitrogen became available for use after this degradation. Examination of blood from one marasmic child after feeding ammonia-(15)N and from another after intravenous injection of urea-(15)N showed incorporation of the label into blood cells and plasma proteins. This did not occur in well nourished controls. It is concluded that ammonia and urea as sources of nonessential nitrogen may play an important part in protein metabolism in the malnourished child.
Clinical responses of patients with blastomycosis to treatment with hamycin have been variable. An explanation for this was sought in a series of studies in which in vitro and in vivo susceptibilities to hamycin of five strains of Blastomyces dermatitidis were compared. Minimal inhibitory concentrations of hamycin for the five strains indicated uniformly high levels of in vitro susceptibility (0.008 to 0.016 mug/ml). In vivo activity was measured in infected mice treated intraperitoneally for a period of 28 days with doses of the drug ranging from 0.001 to 0.030 mg per mouse. Significant differences in response to treatment among the five strains were noted (P < 0.001), and protective doses were found to vary from 0.001 to >0.030 mg per mouse per day. Further observations of infected mice after treatment revealed marked rates of relapsing infection, and several strains caused death. Persistent inapparent infections were also detected on culture of selected organs. Toxicity due to hamycin alone was not observed. These results suggest that variations in clinical responses to hamycin therapy in treatment of blastomycosis reflect differences in pathogenesis and host response in vivo to the infecting organism rather than differences in susceptibility of B. dermatitidis to hamycin.
Some antitumor agents known to specifically inhibit certain tumor cell enzymes were examined for activity against glycolytic enzymes and growth of the insect trypanosomatid, Crithidia fasciculata. The cytoplasmic enzymes hexokinase, alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, malic dehydrogenase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were tested. Agaricic acid (2-hydroxy-1,2,3-nonadecane tricarboxylic acid) was highly inhibitory (50 to 100%) to malic and alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenases at approximately 3 x 10(-5)m; 2-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-2-phenylpropane (2 x 10(-4)m), and 5,6-dichloro-2-benzoxazolinone (5 x 10(-4)m) were less effective (50% inhibition) against them. The antiprotozoal agents primaquine (4 x 10(-4)m) and Melarsoprol (8 x 10(-4)m) were 30 to 40% inhibitory. Agaricic acid, 2-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-2-phenylpropane, and 5,6-dichloro-2-benzoxazolinone inhibited growth of Crithidia at less than 10(-4)m. Eight other test compounds from the Cancer Chemotherapy National Service Center (CCNSC) were not toxic to cell growth, although two (4-biphenylcarboxylic acid and 1-[p-chlorobenzyl]-2-ethyl-5-methyl-indole-3-acetic acid) inhibited Crithidia alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase below 1 mm. All of the compounds used specifically inhibited cancer cell alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase. The corresponding enzyme in pathogenic African trypanosomes is important in their terminal respiration. C. fasciculata may be useful in preliminary evaluation of chemotherapeutic agents as potential trypanocides.
Twenty-seven specimens of human tissue, obtained by operation, were tested to evaluate the theory that iron uptake by tissues from serum is greater when transferrin is nearly completely saturated than when the degree of saturation is normal. Samples of each tissue were incubated in autologous serum so prepared that in one instance the transferrin was 50% saturated and in the second 90% saturated with iron containing (59)Fe. In all samples the uptake of iron was greater from the transferrin which was 90% saturated. The uptake by tissues of epithelial origin was significantly greater than that by non-epithelial tissues. Considerable variation in uptake was noted between samples of the same tissue from different individuals. The role of iron stores in the tissue and folic acid deficiency are discussed. It is concluded that the degree of transferrin saturation is important in determining iron uptake by tissues, especially in those of epithelial origin, and that such uptake may be modified by tissue stores and folic acid deficiency. It is felt that these factors are probably responsible for the extrahepatic parenchymal deposits of iron sometimes found in Bantu subjects with siderosis.
The antifungal activity of pyrrolnitrin, previously shown to be effective against superficial infections, was evaluated against experimental systemic mycoses. Pyrrolnitrin was inhibitory in vitro at <0.78 to 100 mug/ml to Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Sporotrichum schenckii, and Histoplasma capsulatum. Pyrrolnitrin activity was reduced about 90% in sera. After multiple subcutaneous doses of pyrrolnitrin at 20 mg/kg, activity was recovered in mouse blood and urine as well as kidney, liver, and brain homogenates. Multiple daily doses (50 mg/kg) of this antibiotic were effective in reducing by 74% the number of viable cells of C. albicans recovered from kidney homogenates. Multiple doses (15 mg/kg) resulted in a 74% reduction in the number of C. neoformans from brain homogenates. Pyrrolnitrin was ineffective in reducing the recovery of B. dermatitidis or H. capsulatum from liver or spleen homogenates of infected mice. When compared with amphotericin B, hamycin, 5-fluorocytosine, and saramycetin, this antibiotic was less effective. This study indicates that pyrrolnitrin would have limited usefulness as a systemic antifungal agent.
Three labile diabetic patients had recurring episodes of altered sensorium. Each had severe cerebrovascular disease with superimposed metabolic derangements, including ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia without ketosis, mild uremia, and possibly cerebral edema. Two of the patients were examined postmortem. Severe leptomeningeal scarring, basal ganglial calcification and destruction of small intracerebral vessels without evidence of large vessel atherosclerosis were found unexpectedly in one patient, a rare occurrence in this country although recently reported from Europe. The other patient had large vessel atherosclerosis only. The clinical expression of the vascular disease was modified by concurrent abnormalities and reflected the sum total of the complexities which coexisted. The pathophysiology of the unconscious state necessarily depends on the inciting factors. Ketoacidotic coma is associated with depressed cerebral oxygen consumption. Spinal fluid pH is usually maintained during ketosis but is sometimes lowered inadvertently during bicarbonate therapy, with resultant coma. Other variables influencing the clinical expression, with or without ketosis, would include, among others, blood viscosity alterations, rapid decrements in blood sugar, and existing degrees of lactic acidosis. The increasing life-span of the juvenile diabetics, favorably influenced by improved management and recently by hemodialysis, may uncover vascular complications heretofore rarely seen and create additional diagnostic and therapeutic enigmas.
Acute obstruction of the extrahepatic ducts causes gross proximal duct dilatation, and elevated levels of ornithine carbamyl transferase, bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase. Slow progressive obstruction causes variable proximal duct dilatation and in these cases bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and ornithine carbamyl transferase return to normal, despite the presence of severe though incomplete obstruction of the common duct and microscopic findings of biliary cirrhosis. In the early phases, ornithine carbamyl transferase is a slightly more sensitive indicator of biliary obstruction than alkaline phosphatase or bilirubin, but the values still return to normal in the face of a persistent stricture. If a patient who has previously had common duct surgery develops recurrent episodes of fever which suggest cholangitis, it should be assumed that he has a recurrent stricture, even though a cholangiogram and liver function may be normal or only slightly altered. A delay until the liver function studies show consistently raised levels may result in severe biliary cirrhosis and decreased hepatic reserve.
The catabolism of (14)C-labelled plasma glycoprotein in rats was studied after injecting homologous plasma protein labelled in the N-acetylglucosamine and sialic acid moieties. In normal animals the catabolism was approximately described by a four-compartment model. The fractional rate of catabolism of the plasma-protein amino sugar was found to be 0.0305hr.(-1), corresponding to the degradation of 2.75mumoles/hr. The (14)C label was eliminated from the animals largely as carbon dioxide with a small proportion appearing in the urine. Freely circulating amino sugars or glycopeptides did not appear in the plasma as a result of the catabolic processes, and there was no evidence that the protein-bound amino sugars were reutilized in biosynthetic processes. A study of the distribution of (14)C label in the carcasses of animals 24hr. after injection provided evidence that the gastrointestinal tract accounted for 25-38% of the total catabolic pool; the lungs, kidneys, spleen and liver also appeared to contribute to catabolism. Studies were conducted with rats that had been treated with turpentine to induce an inflammatory reaction; the results could not be analysed kinetically, since the metabolism of plasma proteins in these animals did not appear to be in a steady state. The injected plasma protein disappeared from the intravascular pool more quickly than in normal animals, but there were no significant differences in the rates of excretion of the (14)C label.
Enzyme activity changes in reagent and neoplastic glia are examined. In the case of reagent glia, considerably increased ADPase, ATPase and AMPase values have been observed in experimental elective parenchymal necrosis in the rat, in hypertrophic astrocytes from recent plaques in multiple necrosis, in demyelinisation associated with cyanide encephalopathy, and in reagent astrocytes surrounding tumours and arteriosclerosis sites. Depressed ATPase values have been observed in experimental oedema, as compared with increased TPPase in human oedema. BuChE and ChE activity disappears in both oligodendro- and astroglia near old cerebral infarct sites, whereas there is marked BuChE activity peripherally to multiple sclerosis plaques and in areas of phenylpyruvic oligophrenia demyelinisation. In neoplastic glia, ADPase is clearly evident in malignant gliomas, ATPase is related to the extent of the cell body, AMPase is positive in medulloblastoma cell cytoplasm and beta-glucuronidase increases in anaplasia. Above-normal ChE activity has been observed in astrocyte tumors, while BuChE is greater than that of AChE. Phosphorylase reaction is intense in astrocytoma and in glioblastoma giant cells. Phosphoglucomutase values are below-normal in tumours, except in the case of ependymoma, while both phosphohexoisomerase and hexokinase display increased activity in atypical forms.
The following endocrine function parameters were studied serially in a group of 10 patients with recent myocardial infarction: blood and urinary levels of epinephrine and norepinephrine, urinary excretion of vanillyl-mandelic acid; protein-bound iodine, Hamolsky test (Hamolsky, Stein, and Freedberg, 1957); blood insulin; 24-hour urinary excretion of 17-hydroxycorticoids, sodium, and potassium. The acute phase of myocardial infarction, especially in those patients with a severe clinical course (rhythm disturbances, coronary insufficiency, circulatory failure), was associated with disturbed endocrine reactivity. The most frequent and the earliest feature was the increased level of the 24-hour urinary excretion of epinephrine, combined with a pronounced decrease in blood insulin level. Later in the course of the disease, as the adrenergic reactivity returned to normal, there was an increase in blood insulin to normal levels. In 3 patients with severe clinical symptoms of acute myocardial infarction, there were, in addition to the increased 24-hour urinary excretion of catecholamines, a decreased blood insulin, higher than normal levels of protein-bound iodine, and of the Hamolsky test. One of these patients developed hypoadrenia. It is possible that the abnormal endocrine reactions accelerate the catabolic processes within cardiac tissue (catecholamines, thyroid hormones), especially when there is a possible functional deficiency of hormones, occurring as a general adaptation reaction to stress (cortisol, insulin). The disturbances that follow may be dangerous for the patient.
Thirty-four elderly patients with right bundle-branch block and left axis deviation were studied vectorcardiographically utilizing the McFee-Parungao system. Atherosclerosis, arterial hypertension, angina pectoris, cardiac enlargement, and heart failure were common clinical features in this series. Moreover, intermittent advanced degree of atrioventricular block was present in 10 out of the 34 patients. The vectorcardiograms might be readily classified into two basic patterns, types A and B. In type A (19 cases), the frontal plane loop was open-faced. The initial vectors were directed anteriorly, inferiorly, and to the right. The mid-temporal vectors were located in the left postero-superior octant, and the late portion of the loop was inscribed anteriorly to the right with conspicuous conduction delay. Those vectorcardiographic features associate the characteristic patterns of left superior intraventricular block with complete right bundle-branch block. The type B vectorcardiograms (15 cases) demonstrated anterior clockwise loops in the horizontal plane and superior counterclockwise loops in the frontal plane. From a review of the published reports and from personal data, the authors assume that both vectorcardiographic patterns may result from an abnormal spread of excitation resulting from bilateral branch conduction disturbances.
TWO STRAINS OF RATS WITH OPPOSITE GENETIC PROPENSITY FOR HYPERTENSION WERE TESTED FOR: the sensitivity to injections of angiotensin and renin, and the influence of their plasma on the reaction velocity of renin and its substrate in vitro. Intact hypertension-prone rats on low salt had higher sensitivity to angiotensin and a lower sensitivity to renin than hypertension-resistant rats. High NaCl diet did not change the response of the R rats to these injections, but increased the response to renin and angiotensin in intact S rats. Bilateral nephrectomy caused increased response to renin and a decreased response to angiotensin in the S rats, so that both strains were equivalent after bilateral nephrectomy. In vitro, plasma from intact S rats inhibited the activity of hog renin. Plasma from R rats showed no inhibition. The inhibitor disappeared after bilateral nephrectomy. It was speculated that renin inhibitor may be involved in the development of hypertension by increasing sensitivity to angiotensin and other hypertensinogenic stimuli.
Among 25 patients with benign, essential hypertension, and an equal number with other benign forms of hypertension, without serious cardiac, renal, or cerebrovascular impairment, 41 cases failed to reduce aldosterone excretion rates into the normal range (less than 5 mug/day) on a daily intake of 300 mEq of sodium. The hypertensive patients excreted slightly less than the normal fraction of labeled aldosterone as acid-hydrolyzable conjugate. Secretion rates were significantly higher in the hypertensive patients than in normotensive controls taking the high-sodium intake. On a 10 mEq sodium intake, the increase in excretion and secretion rates of aldosterone in the hypertensive patients could be correlated with plasma renin activity (PRA). The patients with the least increase in PRA had subnormal increase in aldosterone secretion and excretion, while unusually large rises in aldosterone secretion accompanied high PRA, especially in the cases with increased plasma angiotensinogen induced by oral contraceptives. The persistence of inappropriately high aldosterone secretion in most hypertensive patients during sodium loading could be related to a higher PRA than that found in normotensive controls under comparable conditions. In other hypertensives, whose PRA was unresponsive to sodium depletion, there was no significant correlation between PRA and aldosterone output, and no known stimulus to aldosterone production was detected. Five obvious cases of hyperaldosteronism were found among the 16 low-renin patients. The cause of the nonsuppressible aldosterone production in the other low-renin cases remains to be determined.
A state of supersaturation of urine with respect to brushite is considered to be important in the formation of renal stones composed of calcium phosphate. 56 supersaturated urine specimens and 44 undersaturated specimens were incubated with collagen (Sigma collagen). Most of the supersaturated specimens calcified the collagen, whereas none of the undersaturated ones did so. Among samples which calcified the collagen, whereas none of the undersaturated ones did so. Among samples which calcified the collagen, the activity product of Ca(++) and HPO(4) (=) after incubation with collagen was essentially the same as that after incubation of the same specimen with brushite; it usually differed from that obtained after incubation with octacalcium phosphate or hydroxyapatite. The molar calcium-to-phosphorus ratio of the solid phase in collagen was approximately These results suggested that the solid phase formed in collagen is brushite. This conclusion was confirmed by the direct identification of brushite in collagen by X-ray diffraction.
The diagnosis of obstructive jaundice remains difficult yet vital, since operative decompression may relieve extrahepatic blockage, but operation can only harm patients with intrahepatic block or parenchymal cell inflammation or necrosis. Three new diagnostic methods (liver scanning, angiography, and transjugular transhepatic cholangiography) are reviewed, as is bilirubin metabolism, so important in the diagnosis of jaundice. Three clinical problems are discussed: extrahepatic obstruction due to cancer of the pancreas, biliary atresia causing jaundice in the newborn, and the diffuse ductal obstruction known as sclerosing cholangitis.An accurate diagnosis can usually be made with standard diagnostic techniques, such as history, physical examination and biochemical tests, and, when appropriate, gastrointestinal x-ray studies, cholecystography and cholangiography, liver biopsy, observation of the patient's course, and the three new radiological approaches mentioned above. Extrahepatic obstructive jaundice is an indication for surgical treatment, except perhaps in cases of sclerosing cholangitis.
In the cyanotic group palliative procedures for transposition of the great arteries are frequently life-saving in infancy, and the definitive operations such as the atrial baffle, and the Rastelli procedure for those with ventricular septal defect and pulmonic stenosis, are now firmly established. In tetralogy of Fallot shunting procedures continue to be employed in infancy and early childhood, and the complete repair is usually done after the age of five. Corrective operations for total anomalous venous return may have to be staged, and the results are more satisfactory in older children. The various forms of endocardial cushion defects can usually be recognized accurately preoperatively, and where the normal anatomical relationships can be restored, excellent results obtained. Brilliant operative success can now be had in some forms of truncus arteriosus and double outlet right ventricle. It is quite common to find congenital heart disease in adults, frequently after many years of having been treated as rheumatic heart disease. The operative risk in this group is less than 10 percent, and in most instances such patients are restored to their normal physiological age after operation.
Chlorpromazine 15 mg/kg, given daily to cats for 2 weeks, produced a rise in homovanillic acid (HVA) content of the caudate nucleus, whereas the same dose of thioridazine lacked this effect. Of these two drugs, only chlorpromazine causes a high incidence of drug-induced Parkinsonism in man.2. In the mouse, chlorpromazine, thioridazine and haloperidol increased striatal concentrations of HVA and accelerated the disappearance of dopamine (DA) after inhibition of catecholamine synthesis with alpha-methyltyrosine. Low doses of the three compounds increased, whereas high doses reduced, the concentration of DA in the striatum. In their effects on the DA metabolism of the mouse, chlorpromazine and thioridazine had the same potency, but haloperidol was between 10 and 100 times more active than the other two drugs. In producing hypothermia and sedation, the three compounds were equiactive.3. Oxypertine, another drug apt to produce Parkinsonism in man, caused a severe reduction in striatal DA and hypothalamic noradrenaline (NA). Though the clinical signs produced in the mouse were indistinguishable from those seen after the same dose of chlorpromazine, the biochemical changes in the brain were thus quite different.4. Though all the drugs used caused temporary motor disabilities in animals, these bore no resemblance to human Parkinsonism, even when treatment was continued for 7 weeks or more as it was in cats and monkeys. The latter were treated with chlorpromazine 7.5 mg/kg daily, a dose chosen to avoid loss of weight and which may have been too small to produce toxic side-effects. It caused no changes in striatal DA turnover.5. Even at the high dose of 50 mg/kg, phenoxybenzamine did not increase DA turnover in mouse brain, but it sedated the mice as did the tranquillizers.6. Atropine sulphate, 25 mg/kg, reduced the HVA content of mouse striatum and partially antagonized the rise in HVA produced by phenothiazines. The effect was surmountable. Possible modes of action of atropine are discussed.7. At present we know of two types of biochemical changes which may occur in the brain of animals after treatment with drugs apt to cause Parkinsonism in man: a loss of cerebral catecholamines, as seen after reserpine or oxypertine, or an increase in turnover of DA as after phenothiazines and butyrophenones.
Attempts were made to produce myocarditis by Trypanosoma cruzi inoculation in healthy dog puppies 6 to 8 weeks old. Significant electrocardiographic abnormalities were produced, coinciding with interstitial inflammatory processes in the cardiac tissue and with degenerative changes in the myocardial fibres. In puppies showing these changes, profound changes in the excitability and the functional refractory period of the atrial and ventricular muscular tissue were observed. The administration of Peruvosid in doses of 0.0240 to 0.0647 mg./kg. tended to diminish the excitability, previously increased by the inflammatory process, at the same time increasing the functional refractory period duration which had previously been shortened. The fact that Peruvosid corrects these fundamental factors in the genesis of cardiac arrhythmias suggests that the drug may be useful in the treatment of cardiac insufficiency produced by Chagas' myocardiopathy, in which arrhythmias are one of the basic characteristics.
A case of granulomatous ileocolitis which also showed features of ulcerative colitis, and in which lesions were believed to be due to inflammation of previously undescribed structures, microdiverticula, was reported previously. Subsequently, sections of the segments of bowel received from 17 cases of regional enteritis and 16 cases of ulcerative colitis were re-examined for the presence of similar microdiverticula and submucosal epithelial elements. The same structures were present in five cases of regional enteritis and in 14 of ulcerative colitis. A granulomatous type of inflammatory response was found in the bowel and lymph nodes in 14 of the 17 cases of regional enteritis, and in none of the cases labelled ulcerative colitis. In spite of this, difficulty was experienced in placing some cases in one or other diagnostic category. This re-emphasizes the possibility that the two conditions may not be etiologically discrete, and that both may be, in fact, related to the presence of microdiverticula. In addition, it may be that colitis cystica profunda is a result of microdiverticulosis in which the submucosal glandular structures attain unusually large proportions.
Infusion of daunomycin 50 mg/kg in the monkey consistently induced ventricular arrhythmias which were not influenced by bilateral vagotomy.2. A central sympathetic component to the arrhythmias was suggested because spinal transection, ganglionic blockade or bilateral stellate ganglionectomy prevented any alterations in the e.c.g.3. Bilateral adrenalectomy or splanchnic nerve section protected three of six animals. This source of catecholamines may not be necessary in every case to initiate the arrhythmia.4. Guanethidine was a relatively ineffective antiarrhythmic agent. Timing appears to be important with this agent.5. Pargyline, by monoamine oxidase inhibition or other mechanisms, significantly lowered the arrhythmic dose of daunomycin. Reserpine pretreatment, on the other hand, prevented any e.c.g. alterations following daunomycin.6. Phenoxybenzamine exerted significant protection which may be related to its cardiodepressant properties.7. Alterations in e.c.g. were seen in all (+)-propranolol pretreated animals, although the arrhythmic period was modified in two of three experiments. Racemic (+/-) propranolol, which exerts direct myocardium depression as well as beta-adrenoceptor blockade, was completely protective in four of five experiments. The results of the present experiments indicate that the sympathetic nervous system is intimately involved in the daunomycin arrhythmia.
Metabolic disorders are discussed which are associated with the pathophysiological mechanisms of the origin of convulsions. Homeostasis impairment, e. g. hyponatremia, hypo- and hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia is mentioned, as well as vitamin deficiencies, such as pyridoxin deficiency, and the problem of phenylketonuria is discussed in connection with aminoacid disorders. Possible connections between aminoacid disorders and BNS, occurring in 8.1% of 1,688 children treated for epilepsy at the neurological department of the Brno Faculty Children's Hospital, are further discussed. Results of screening for amino-aciduria (according to Berry's method) were negative in 3000 healthy infants, whereas careful investigation resulted in pathologic aminoaciduria in 17 out of 20 children with BNS. Also results of hormonal treatment in children with this sort of convulsions are reported. It is concluded that early therapy, even though incapable of influencing neurological abnormities, suppresses convulsions and may lead to the disappearance of hypsarythmia from the EEG curve. A benign influence upon mental development was observed in a small group of children in whom therapy had been initiated very early. It is emphasized that this, by no means indifferent, type of therapy should only be performed in a well equipped and managed pediatric department.
This syndrome was defined by the authors in Earlier publications of similar disease descriptions were by Syllaba and Henner (1926), Louis-Bar (1941). The authors at present have a stock of 253 cases. The cardinal symptoms of this phakomatosis are: Cerebellar ataxia which begin in infancy and take a slowly progressive course. In the late stages free walking and standing are no longer possible. Progressive atactic speech disorders, cerebellar atrophy in the pneumoencephalogram. Slowly progressing symmetrical skin and mucosal telangiectasia in the face and especially on the conjunctivae at the age of 3 to 6 years. Relapsing sinopulmonary infections with a tendency toward the development of bronchiectases. Apraxia of eye movements. Atrophy of facial skin and premature graying of hair. Recessively hereditary disorder with a high familial manifestation. This syndrome combines the spinocerebellar degeneration, phakomatoses, and infantile dementia processes. Such other conditions as abnormity or absence of thymus, reduction in gamma globulins, amino-aciduria, autosomal-recessive inheritance suggest a genetically determined "error of metabolism".
A number of oral preparations of various forms of silicon were fed to young adult Beagle dogs and young rats of both sexes for a period of four weeks. During the test period the animals were observed for clinical symptoms and urine and blood measurements were made. At the end of the experimental period all animals were sacrificed and subjected to a complete necropsy and histopathologic study. Polydipsia, polyuria, and soft stools in some animals fed sodium silicate and magnesium trisilicate were the only untoward clinical signs observed; all clinical tests on blood and urine were within normal limits. Gross and microscopic renal lesions were observed in dogs fed sodium silicate and magnesium trisilicate but no changes were seen in those animals fed silicon dioxide or aluminium silicate. Lesions were not observed in any of the rats. In view of the large number of commercial preparations which contain sodium silicate and magnesium trisilicate used in human medicine, these compounds deserve further study.
In anaesthetized cats, in which the carotid arterial bifurcation had been denervated and the spinal cord transected at the cervical level, reversible bradycardia mediated by the vagus nerves was elicited by temporary arrest of the cranial circulation. Methoxamine was infused intravenously to maintain peripheral vascular resistance, and artificial ventilation was given to avert systemic asphyxia.2. The bradycardia persisted in cats subjected to one or more of the following acute surgical procedures: left vagotomy, mid-collicular decerebration, decerebellation, bulbar transections at the acoustic striae and inferior fovea, and destruction of the area postrema and the underlying dorsal vagal nuclei. Ischaemia-induced bradycardia was invariably abolished after bilateral vagotomy or the administration of atropine.3. Bradycardia could not be elicited by electrical stimulation of the dorsal vagal nuclei, but was evoked by stimulation of deep structures in the vicinity of the nucleus ambiguus even after destruction of the dorsal vagal nuclei.4. Simultaneous application of ischaemia and electrical stimulation of the medullary cardio-decelerator locus produced convergent occlusion of the vagal response. The effect of ischaemia was inhibited by stimulation of a neighbouring region in the medial reticular formation. These interactions indicate that an interneuronal link is involved in the mechanism of ischaemia-induced bradycardia.5. It is concluded that the cardio-decelerator response to ischaemia is initiated upstream to the primary efferent vagal motor neurones and that the cardio-inhibitory fibres do not originate in the dorsal vagal nuclei.
The effects of the arsenical drug melarsonyl potassium on Onchocerca volvulus were investigated in patients in Cameroon infected with the Cameroon forest and Sudan savanna strains of the parasite. Two intramuscular dosage schedules were tested: the first comprised 4 consecutive daily doses of 200 mg repeated once after a 10-14 day interval, i.e., 2 (4x200 mg). The second was a single dose schedule at 7.1 mg/kg-10 mg/kg, with a maximum of 500 mg.In most trials the drug had no immediate action on microfilarial concentrations. Only after the 2(4x200 mg) melarsonyl course against the Sudan savanna strain was a slight microfilaricidal action detected.The 2(4x200 mg) course of melarsonyl apparently killed or sterilized most or all of the adult female worms in the patients tested, leaving the residual population of microfilariae to decline gradually, from natural mortality, over the ensuing 2 years. These residual microfilariae could be killed with diethylcarbamazine.Single doses of melarsonyl at 7.1 mg/kg-10 mg/kg were somewhat less effective in killing or sterilizing adult worms, but it is suggested that if doses at the higher end of this range were to be repeated annually patients could be rendered free from microfilariae by the end of 3 years.It is emphasized that the risks of arsenical encephalopathy should at present preclude the use of melarsonyl potassium in the treatment of onchocerciasis, but that if this danger could be avoided the drug might prove to be of considerable use for mass therapy in control campaigns.
IgG and IgM metabolism was evaluated in 10 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), 10 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and in seven normal volunteers. The biological half-lives of purified IgG and IgM, labeled with (131)I and (125)I, respectively, were determined by serial measurements of radioactivity in the blood and urine with a gamma well counter, and by serial counts of total body radioactivity in a total body counting chamber. The mean survival half-life for IgG in patients with SLE was 8.2 days as compared to an average of 18 days in normal controls. An average of 10.1% of total body IgG was catabolized daily compared to a mean of 3.9% in normal controls. Turnover of IgM in patients with SLE was, with very few exceptions, normal. In contrast, patients with rheumatoid arthritis revealed a milder abnormality of IgG metabolism, but markedly abnormal IgM catabolism with a mean half-life averaging 5.9 days as compared to 9.3 days in control subjects. An average of 14.2% of total body IgM was catabolized daily in patients with RA as compared to 8.1% in normal controls. Our data suggest that there are basic differences between patients with RA and SLE in the synthesis and catabolism of IgG and IgM not readily apparent from serum IgG and IgM concentration. Abnormal IgG and IgM metabolism may be related to underlying immunological mechanisms in these diseases. Immunoglobulin turnover studies appear to be an additional means for the characterization of rheumatic diseases.
Twenty-one patients with histologically proved osteomalacia from various causes were investigated for biochemical and radiological evidence of osteomalacia and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Among the 15 who maintained a normal serum calcium, seven had a raised phosphate excretion index, seven had a raised serum alkaline phosphatase, and six had phalangeal erosions. On the other hand, six patients had a subnormal serum calcium; of these, none showed a raised phosphate excretion index, one had a raised serum alkaline phosphatase, and one had erosions. The phosphate excretion index and the alkaline phosphatase were strongly correlated (r = +0.84). It is concluded that this absence of manifest secondary hyperparathyroidism in some patients with osteomalacia is due to failure of an increase in the release of parathyroid hormone. Measurement of phosphaturia does not appear to be a useful means of detecting osteomalacia. Subsequently, the 24-hour (stable) strontium space measurement was found to be the most sensitive single biochemical screening test for osteomalacia.
This investigation studies the toxicity of heme proteins and/or their break-down products on renal function. Heme proteinemia precedes acute tubule necrosis at a frequency great enough to suggest a causal relationship between the two events. Physiological and metabolic functions of kidney slices are investigated in several models of acute tubule necrosis. Organic acid and organic base transport is depressed earliest. These alterations in tubule function cannot be explained by ischemia or obstruction alone. Heme proteinemia in rats or incubation of renal slices in medium containing heme proteins yields several interesting observations. Neither in vivo or in vitro do hemoglobin and methemoglobin alone produce a depressive effect on the transport systems studied. However, parallel to many clinical situations, when such secondary insults as hypoxia and elevated ammonia concentrations are included in the experimental design, transport functions are depressed. Ferrihemate, a molecule smaller than hemoglobin or methemoglobin, depresses transport function without secondary insults. From these studies it is concluded that heme proteins play a role in tubule dysfunction seen in acute tubule necrosis. A model is presented that collates these data with other factors known to play a part in the pathogenesis of this renal syndrome.
In a crossover study the effectiveness of intermittent maintenance doses of nitrogen mustard was compared to that of vinblastine sulfate in the treatment of 61 patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease. Forty-five of the patients had had previous radiation therapy. Nine of 29 patients who received nitrogen mustard as the first drug had a complete response and five had a partial response. The comparative results in 32 patients receiving vinblastine sulfate first were nine complete responses and 13 partial responses. The median duration of the complete responses to each drug was 43 weeks. The partial responses were of shorter duration. When the second drug was given in adequate doses, almost as many patients responded with a similar median duration of response.It is concluded that nitrogen mustard and vinblastine sulfate are equally effective single agents in the treatment of patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease and that patient preference would favour vinblastine sulfate because of its negligible side effects.
The metabolism of radioiodinated IgG was studied in a series of 42 patients with connective tissue diseases (16 systemic lupus erythematosus, nine rheumatoid arthritis, five polymyositis, five vasculitis, and seven miscellaneous diagnoses). Fractional catabolic rates were increased and survival half-lives were shortened in all diagnostic categories indicating hypercatabolism of IgG. This hypercatabolism was masked by increased IgG synthesis, resulting in elevated serum concentrations of IgG in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis and in generally normal concentrations in the others. The metabolism of iodinated IgM was also studied in eight patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, in seven with rheumatoid arthritis, and in 12 controls. The fractional catabolic rates were normal in both groups of patients. Serum concentrations of both IgM and IgA were moderately elevated in all diagnostic categories. Serum albumin metabolism was entirely normal in the nine subjects studied who were not receiving corticosteroids; in three who were receiving them, moderate hypercatabolism was observed. The hypercatabolism of IgG could not be accounted for by factors previously known to alter IgG metabolism. It was not observed in 15 patients with other chronic, inflammatory diseases and was not explained by concomitant administration of adrenal corticosteroids to some patients. Identical results were obtained whether the IgG was obtained from a patient himself or from a normal donor, demonstrating that the hypercatabolism is a host defect and not an abnormality of the protein. Thus, patients with connective tissue disease of several different diagnostic categories have been shown to have an unexplained immunoglobulin abnormality: they catabolize normal IgG at an accelerated rate.
The clinical and electrocardiographic features of 11 patients with ventricular parasystole in acute myocardial infarction are described. This arrhythmia always appeared within the first 24 hours after the beginning of the pain, and lasted usually a few hours. Only one patient received digitalis before the appearance of the arrhythmia; the others did not receive any drug of known arrhythmic potential. The treatment was mainly with lignocaine intravenously, the response to which was usually very good. There was no relation between this arrhythmia and the plasma potassium levels. The electrocardiographic finding of fusion beats, coupling, retrograde conduction, interectopic interval, ectopic cycle length, and exit block were analysed. Two of the cases were examples of intermittent parasystole. The relation between this arrhythmia and the slow idioventricular rhythm was discussed. It appears that this is a benign arrhythmia, easily controlled by treatment, produced perhaps by the same mechanisms as ventricular tachycardia, but with the existence of exit block.
Simultaneous turnover studies with radioiodine-labelled IgM and IgG were made in 12 patients with Crohn's disease. Intestinal protein loss was estimated by means of (59)Fe-labelled iron dextran. The serum levels of IgM, IgG, and IgA were normal in most cases. The catabolic rate of IgM was increased in all but one case. A positive correlation was present between the catabolic rate and serum concentration of IgM, an observation which, so far, has been made only in Crohn's disease. The synthetic rate of IgM was raised or high normal in four cases with an intraabdominal abscess. It was normal in the remaining cases. A strong positive correlation was found between the synthetic rates of IgM and IgG. The size of the protein loss was unrelated to the raised catabolic rates of IgM and IgG.Faecal radioiodine excretion from labelled IgM and IgG bore no relation to faecal (59)Fe excretion, nor did it indicate the site of the intestinal lesion. However, a close correlation was observed between faecal excretion of the labels from IgM and IgG.
Seventy-one patients with suspected pulmonary embolism had both pulmonary scans and angiograms. Clinically it was impossible to predict the absence or presence of subsequent angiographic evidence of pulmonary embolism in the individual patient. In 24 patients the scans showed defects that were believed to indicate a high probability of pulmonary embolism-namely, perfusion defects that corresponded to specific anatomical segments of the lung together with normal chest radiographs or radiographs suggestive of pulmonary embolism. Specific angiographic evidence of pulmonary embolism was found in 18 (75%) of these patients. Diffuse, patchy, and non-segmental perfusion defects were seen in 28 patients. Only seven (25%) of this group had angiographic abnormalities specific for embolism. In 12 patients with normal lung scans none showed subsequent evidence of embolism by angiography. It is concluded firstly that lung scanning is a sensitive screening procedure for pulmonary embolism and, secondly, that segmental perfusion defects are highly suggestive of pulmonary embolism.
Serial determinations of plasma renin activity, sodium balance, urinary potassium excretion rate, and plasma sodium and potassium concentration were done in five dogs during dietary-induced potassium depletion and repletion. Duration of depletion for the different animals ranged from 5 to 7 wk. Plasma renin activity increased in all animals during depletion, with rises being demonstrated as early as the 1st depletion day in two of the dogs. Maximum values in the five dogs were recorded from the 2nd to the 28th day of depletion. Early in depletion, changes in renin activity did not correlate with changes in sodium balance. Late in the course of depletion, plasma renin activity decreased concurrently with a progressive retention of sodium. However, in every case increased renin activity persisted throughout depletion despite development of sodium retention sufficient to inhibit renin release in normal dogs. Potassium repletion resulted in a prompt decrease in renin activity to predepletion values. This study indicates that potassium deficiency has a stimulatory effect on renin release that is independent of any effect on sodium balance.
Eight further cases of neurogenic orthostatic hypotension are described together with a necropsy study on one case. Three cases showed evidence of autonomic dysfunction in isolation, while in five cases this was accompanied by evidence of more diffuse central nervous system degeneration. (Parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia, dementia, pyramidal signs, bulbar weakness, and muscular wasting were all seen in varying proportions.)The various clinical presentations, investigations, pathology, treatment, and prognosis are discussed. In the experience of the authors, when assessed, an abnormal Valsalva response is invariable, confirming the breakdown of the circulatory reflex. A normal vasopressor response is likewise invariable, eliminating an abnormality of blood vessels themselves, and confirming the lesion as neurogenic. The demonstration of loss of sweating to indirect body heating, which also is usual suggests that the defect is central or on the efferent side of the reflex and a normal pilo-erector response to acetylcholine confirms this as preganglionic. Emphasis is laid on the non-specificity of many accepted physiological tests in this disorder and on the delay in diagnosis consequent upon the variable presentation.
The natural history of 14 patients with ventricular septal defect and right-sided aortic arch is reviewed. Patients are divided into two groups. Group A consisted of 10 patients, all of whom developed progressive infundibular stenosis; group B consisted of 4 patients, none of whom developed infundibular stenosis. The clinical features, x-rays, electrocardiograms, haemodynamic data, and angiocardiograms in these two groups are compared. The right ventricular cine-angiocardiogram seems to be helpful in differentiating the course of the two groups. The patients who developed progressive infundibular stenosis showed an abnormal right ventricular cine-angiocardiogram even in the absence of obstruction. Various aetiological factors for the development of infundibular stenosis are discussed. The importance of medical management in group A patients is emphasized, even though all of them presented in infancy in congestive heart failure. The role of propranolol in preventing cyanotic spells in group A patients is also discussed.
A review is given of 457 episodes of atrial fibrillation that occurred in 318 patients and were treated by DC shock. Antidysrhythmic drugs, such as quinidine, procainamide, and propranolol, given singly or in combination, were used concomitantly in 389 instances, and DC shock alone was given in 68 instances. The combined effects of quinidine and DC shock, and of procainamide and DC shock were studied in the experimental animal.Combined DC shock and drug therapy gave a higher conversion rate than DC shock alone, and a statistically significant difference was found in respect of the group of patients receiving procainamide and propranolol together (p<0.01). Antidysrhythmic drugs failed on the whole to reduce the incidence of DC shock-induced dysrhythmias. However, the incidence of certain digitalis and DC shock-induced dysrhythmias was significantly less when propranolol and procainamide were given as pretreatment than when procainamide or quinidine was given alone (p<0.01). In animal experiments, quinidine had no protective action against digitalis and DC shock-induced ectopic tachycardias. Clinical and experimental observations suggest that the cardiotoxicity of these drugs may be enhanced by DC shock. Immediate or delayed post-shock rhythm disorders can be drug related and, therefore, great caution should be exercised in the use of antidysrhythmic drugs in conjunction with DC shock therapy.
Certain gouty subjects with excessive de novo purine synthesis are deficient in hypoxanthineguanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HG-PRTase [EC 2.4.2.8]). The mechanism of accelerated uric acid formation in these patients was explored by measuring the incorporation of glycine-(14)C into various urinary purine bases of normal and enzyme-deficient subjects during treatment with the xanthine oxidase inhibitor, allopurinol. In the presence of normal HG-PRTase activity, allopurinol reduced purine biosynthesis as demonstrated by diminished excretion of total urinary purine or by reduction of glycine-(14)C incorporation into hypoxanthine, xanthine, and uric acid to less than one-half of control values. A boy with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome was resistant to this effect of allopurinol while a patient with 12.5% of normal enzyme activity had an equivocal response. Three patients with normal HG-PRTase activity had a mean molar ratio of hypoxanthine to xanthine in the urine of 0.28, whereas two subjects who were deficient in HG-PRTase had reversal of this ratio (1.01 and 1.04). The patterns of (14)C-labeling observed in HG-PRTase deficiency reflected the role of hypoxanthine as precursor of xanthine. The data indicate that excessive uric acid in HG-PRTase deficiency is derived from hypoxanthine which is insufficiently reutilized and, as a consequence thereof, catabolized inordinately to uric acid. The data provide evidence for cyclic interconversion of adenine and hypoxanthine derivatives. Cleavage of inosinic acid to hypoxanthine via inosine does not contribute significantly to the formation of uric acid in either normal man or in patients with HG-PRTase deficiency.HG-PRTase was not completely absent in red blood cells from a boy with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome; with hypoxanthine as substrate, the activity in erythrocyte hemolysates was 0.64% of normal values.
We have studied and found valuable a numerical value best designated as the "renal chlormerodrin uptake". This represents not a transient state, like the renogram, but a measurement of the biological ability of the renal tubules to firmly bind (203)Hg chlormerodrin presented to them as a very small standard dose passing through the kidney. Normal kidneys bind a remarkably fixed portion, and there is a consistent parallel between retention and tubular function.This binding, expressed for each kidney as a percentage of the normal, provides an easily measured value which allows isotopic renal measurements made from day to day and from year to year, on various individuals, to be accurately compared.These uptake values may be used to measure individual organ function or, by their addition, to evaluate the total renal function possessed by that patient. The utility of such uptake values goes beyond the conventional assessment of renal flow in hypertension, and is applicable to most forms of renal dysfunction, including trauma.Determination of the renal uptake at three to four hours fits well into a standard set of procedures which also includes the renogram, the renal scan, the local quantitation of scan areas, and the intravenous pyelogram. It requires only a few additional minutes, and no additional instrumentation or radiopharmaceuticals.
Left ventricular aneurysm, interventricular septal defect and acute mitral valve incompetence due to papillary muscle damage are three mechanical complications which cause intractable heart failure following myocardial infarction. In each case surgical intervention can result in dramatic improvement of congestive heart failure.A hemodynamically significant left ventricular aneurysm enlarges the cardiac silhouette and frequently causes a localized protrusion as seen radiographically. Cardiac fluoroscopy will disclose an abnormal pulsation of the left ventricular border. The left ventricular angiogram establishes the diagnosis, reveals the extent of the aneurysm and may disclose a filling defect in the aneurysmal sac due to the presence of mural thrombus. Coronary arteriography shows occlusion of a major vessel, most commonly the anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery. Ischemic perforation of the interventricular septum and acute mitral incompetence due to severe papillary muscle damage both cause severe heart failure shortly after myocardial infarction. A similar pansystolic murmur accompanies both conditions, and differentiation between the two is rarely possible on the basis of the electrocardiogram or x-ray film of the chest. Ventricular cardiac catheterization and left ventricular angiocardiography are required for a correct diagnosis.
To determine the incidence and time of onset of the atrial sound after reversion of atrial fibrillation in patients with myocardial disease, 12 patients with arteriosclerotic heart disease and 4 patients with primary myocardial disease were followed with serial auscultation as well as daily simultaneous apical phonocardiogram, apex cardiogram, and lead II electrocardiogram. Their average age was 52.3 years. Each patient had been in atrial fibrillation for 6 months to 2 years' duration; 13 were reverted to sinus rhythm with DC capacitor discharge and 3 with quinidine sulphate. All 16 patients developed an atrial sound when in sinus rhythm, but only 2 on the day of reversion; the other 14 patients developed an atrial sound on the first to the sixth day after reversion (average third day). The atrial sound persisted in each patient. This study indicates that the atrial sound as a manifestation of diminished ventricular compliance may be absent in patients with myocardial disease immediately after reversion of atrial fibrillation and may later appear as left atrial function improves.
Four patients with Prinzmetal's variant angina pectoris were subjected to continuous electrocardiographic recording. In three of them several episodes of ST segment elevation unaccompanied by pain were recorded. In one patient, identical electrocardiographic alterations were observed both in presence or in absence of pain, while in the others a good correlation was evident between pain and severity of the electrocardiographic abnormalities. In two patients transmural myocardial infarction complicated the course of the angina. In contrast to the classical findings, in these patients the attacks of chest pain did not cease after the infarction, but became more frequent and severe. The electrocardiographic alterations of the anginal episodes occurred in the same myocardial areas involved by the infarction, so that a reversible superposition of electrocardiographic signs of acute ischaemia on those of recent necrosis was observed. Continuous electrocardiographic recording provided the best means of investigation of these patients with the variant form of angina pectoris.
The incidence, natural history, prognosis, and electrocardiographic characteristics of idioventricular rhythm complicating acute myocardial infarction are described. It occurred as a transient arrhythmia nearly always within 24 hours of infarction in 61 (8%) of 737 patients, and was characterized by paroxysms of between 6 and 20 beats with widened bizarre QRS complexes at a rate of between 60 and 90 a minute. Most cases showed fusion beats and P waves dissociated from the QRS complexes, and in many cases idioventricular rhythm started during the slow phase of sinus arrhythmia. Though it usually occurred in patients with moderately severe transmural infarcts, the incidence of ventricular fibrillation and subsequent mortality was no greater than in patients with infarcts of equivalent severity who did not have idioventricular rhythm. It is concluded that this rhythm is a common and relatively benign arrhythmia complicating myocardial infarction, and that it should be distinguished from ventricular tachycardia.
The effect of intravenous heparin in a therapeutic dosage on cardiac arrhythmias in patients with indubitable acute myocardial infarction was investigated. The value of serum free-fatty-acids (F.F.A.s) and plasma catecholamines in the prediction of patients vulnerable to serious arrhythmias was also studied.Heparin produced a significant rise in F.F.A., maximal within 10 minutes of injection, but did not increase the incidence of cardiac arrhythmias.No relationship was found between the incidence of arrhythmias and the initial levels of F.F.A. or adrenaline. No correlation was obtained between F.F.A. and plasma catecholamine levels. Heparin did not have a consistent effect on plasma catecholamines. Initial control plasma noradrenaline concentrations, however, were found to be significantly correlated with the incidence of subsequent arrhythmias. It is suggested that the level of plasma noradrenaline may be a valuable predictive guide to those patients likely to develop significant arrhythmias after acute myocardial infarction.
Ninety-three electroencephalograms (E.E.G.s) were recorded within a week of cardiac resuscitation from 41 patients in whom the subsequent outcome was known to be either recovery of cerebral function or death with associated pathological evidence of gross anoxic brain damage. A statistical analysis of observations on these E.E.G.s yielded a discriminant function for predicting death or survival. Predictions based on each of the 93 individual E.E.G.s would have been correct in 92 and at a confidence level better than 99%. The same discriminant function was found to be applicable to a further 19 patients who died but did not undergo neuropathological studies and to 33 others in whom the clinical picture was complicated by such factors as uraemia or head injury. Thus it seems that the presence or absence of fatal brain damage after cardiac arrest can be reliably predicted from E.E.G.s taken within a week of resuscitation. An estimate of the probability of survival is now routinely included in the clinical report on each E.E.G. taken after cardiac arrest.
The collagen hydroxyproline in rat liver was composed of 3.5% neutral-soluble collagen, 4.9% acid-soluble collagen and 91.6% insoluble collagen. In labelling studies with [(14)C]proline in vitro, the specific radioactivities of neutral-soluble, acid-soluble and insoluble collagens in rat liver were found to be 233000, 69000 and 830d.p.m./mumol of hydroxyproline respectively after 1h. During subacute carbon tetrachloride poisoning the hepatic content of insoluble collagen markedly increased, whereas those of soluble collagens did not change. During recovery from subacute poisoning hepatic contents of soluble collagens were markedly decreased. After 8 weeks of carbon tetrachloride poisoning the specific radioactivities of hepatic soluble collagens increased, while that of insoluble collagen decreased. During recovery from subacute poisoning, the specific radioactivities of soluble collagens decreased to the normal range and that of insoluble collagen further decreased. Hepatic collagenolytic activity solubilizing insoluble collagen, which differs from mammalian collagenase, decreased under the conditions of the subacute poisoning and also during recovery from subacute poisoning.
Vascular changes were seen in specimens with lesions of Crohn's disease as well as in ulcerative colitis. In Crohn's disease, the vasculature in the bowel wall was rearranged secondary to thickening of the intestinal coats. An anatomical relationship was often found between the ulcers and the point where arteries break through the muscularis propria. The vasculature was markedly increased in areas with deep ulcers and transmural inflammation, but in areas with only small ulcers and mild inflammatory reaction vascular changes were barely discernible or absent. Occlusive vascular changes were uncommon and not visible in the radiographs. In active ulcerative colitis hypervascularity was more marked than in Crohn's disease, but was confined to the mucosa and adjacent parts of the submucosa. In ;burnt-out' atrophy vascularity was not increased and only minor changes in the submucosal arteries were observed. The observations did not suggest that the vascular alterations are of primary importance for the formation of lesions in either disease.
The role of the sympathetic nervous system in experimental hypertension and associated changes in aortic sodium and potassium was studied using normal and immunosympathectomized Sprague-Dawley rats.2. A single injection of antiserum to nerve-growth factor to rats at birth produced less intensive destruction of the peripheral sympathetic system than did two injections (one daily for 2 days). The former are referred to as "partial" immunosympathectomized and the latter as "total" immunosympathectomized rats.3. Maintenance of rats on 1% sodium chloride after unilateral nephrectomy and implantation of 40 mg desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) pellets resulted in sustained DOCA-NaCl hypertension in both normal and "partial" immunosympathectomized rats but not in "total" immunosympathectomized rats. Hypertension was associated with an increase in aortic sodium.4. Constriction of one renal artery with contralateral nephrectomy caused sustained hypertension and an increase in aortic sodium in normal and "partial" immunosympathectomized rats. Renal hypertension in "total" immunosympathectomized rats was not sustained.5. It is concluded that a certain minimum control of the cardiovascular system by the sympathetic system is essential for the production of experimental hypertension and associated electrolyte changes.
A preparation is described for investigating the central nervous control of gastric motility in decerebrate decerebellate sheep.2. The dorsal vagal nucleus has been electrically stimulated in thirty decerebrate sheep, and the effect on the mechanical responses of the different parts of the reticulo-rumen have been determined.3. In the absence of recurrent rhythmic gastric contractions, punctate electrical stimulation of the dorsal vagal nucleus did not elicit gastric contraction until the intensity of stimulation was sufficiently high to excite efferent vagal fibres.4. Direct stimulation of the vagus nerve, or of motor fibres running from the nucleus to this nerve, always caused contraction of the reticulum, and dorsal and ventral ruminal sacs.5. Electrical stimulation of certain points within the medulla oblongata, during rhythmic gastric motility, inhibited motility for one or more contraction cycles. These inhibitory points lay on a line commencing at the mid-point of the dorsal vagal nucleus, and extending forward and ventral to this.6. Excitatory responses were less frequent, and were seen along a line running parallel to, but about 1 mm below, the anterior half of the line of maximum inhibition. They usually followed a period of inhibition, were generally shorter in duration, and consisted of a series of small reticular contractions at a rate of about 1/10 sec.7. The presence of a powerful inhibitory influence on the dorsal vagal nucleus, mediated from an area lying anterior to the nucleus, is argued and its probable action at the level of the gastric motor nucleus is discussed.
The unidirectional fluxes of (22)Na, (36)Cl and [(14)C]bicarbonate ions were measured in paired portions of the isolated and short-circuited colonic mucosa of Bufo arenarum, separated from its muscular layer. Pharmacological effects as well as effects of changes in the composition of the nutrient solutions on the electrical parameters of membrane activity (potential difference, short-circuit current and total membrane resistance) are described.2. The net fluxes of both Cl and bicarbonate ions were not significantly different from zero in the absence of electrochemical gradients across the membrane.3. The net Na flux from mucosa to serosa represented a variable proportion of the short-circuit current ranging from 62 to 100%.4. The proportion of membranes with high discrepancies between net Na flux and short-circuit current decreased with the duration of captivity of the toads.5. When Na was entirely replaced by choline in the mucosal bathing solution, the short-circuit current dropped by a variable amount within the range of 64 to 98% of its control values in different membranes. This effect was completely reversible. Similar changes in the serosal solution had no effect.6. The short-circuit current and potential difference were very sensitive to the serosal concentration of bicarbonate ions. In different membranes, 60-100% of the short-circuit current was reversibly abolished by bathing the serosal surface with a bicarbonate-free solution. The mucosal bicarbonate level had no effect on either the potential difference or the short-circuit current. 5 mM bicarbonate in the serosal solution restored at least 50% of the short-circuit control value and full recovery was attained by concentrations near 30 mM bicarbonate.7. Anoxia brought the potential difference and short-circuit current reversibly down to zero in about 50 min.8. Ouabain reduced the short-circuit current up to 80% in about 40 min when present in the serosal solution at a concentration of 10(-4)M. At this or lower concentrations the ouabain effect was reversible. Above this level ouabain produced 100% inhibition in 3-4 hr, but this was no longer reversible. Ouabain had no effect on the short-circuit current either when applied to the mucosal surface or in the absence of Na from the mucosal solution.9. Diamox produced a variable inhibition of the short-circuit current of up to 30% only at concentrations above 10 mM.10. Possible mechanisms are discussed for the appearance of the non-Na component of the short-circuit current. A theory concerning its nature is proposed.
The effect of X irradiation on the survival time of animals experimentally infected with pathogenic fungi was studied, and the activity of antifungal agents in pre-irradiated hosts was evaluated. A 24-hr preinfection dose of X irradiation decreased the survival time of mice infected with Cryptococcus neoformans and Histoplasma capsulatum to a greater extent than Candida albicans or Blastomyces dermatitidis infections. Exposure to 400 r caused a significant reduction in the variation (S(2)) survival time of C. albicans or H. capsulatum mouse infections. A single 100-mg/kg dose of 5-fluorocytosine or amphotericin B administered within 24 hr postinfection significantly extended the survival time of mice infected with C. albicans. Delayed treatment with amphotericin B was effective against C. neoformans infections. Four 50-mg/kg doses of 5-fluorocytosine were more effective than a single 200-mg/kg dose against C. neoformans infections. A single dose of amphotericin B provided significant protection when administered 48 hr postinfection against B. dermatitidis in preirradiated mice. A single dose of saramycetin 48 hr postinfection was highly effective against H. capsulatum mouse infections. A 100-mg/kg dose of amphotericin B was only effective against this fungal pathogen when administered within 8 hr postinfection. In vivo activity of the antifungal agents studied was detected within 8 to 14 days. The relative in vivo activity of several antifungal agents indicated the importance of considering their individual pharmacological properties for optimum effectiveness. The experimental model used in this study should be useful for the detection and for the preclinical evaluation of new antifungal agents.
After the administration of l-[G-(3)H]proline to guinea pigs deprived of ascorbic acid for increasing periods of time, the specific radioactivities of proline and hydroxyproline in skin collagen and aortic elastin were determined at various time-intervals after administration of the labelled compound with a view to studying the formation and degradation of collagen and elastin both deficient in hydroxyproline. As judged from the incorporation of radioactivity into elastin proline, elastin synthesis was not decreased in the ascorbic acid-deficient animals. There was however, a rapid decline in the specific radioactivity of elastin hydroxyproline. The proline/hydroxyproline specific-radioactivity ratio was approx. 1.5:1 after 6 days and 20:1 after 12 days of ascorbic acid deprivation, in contrast with the ratio of 1:1 in controls. The results suggested that the effect of ascorbic acid deficiency on elastin biosynthesis could be regarded as simply an elimination of hydroxylation of elastin proline with the formation and retention of a polymer increasingly deficient in hydroxyproline. Collagen proline and hydroxyproline specific radioactivities were derived from material that was soluble in hot trichloroacetic acid, non-diffusible and collagenase-degradable. In contrast with elastin, there was a rapid decline in the specific radioactivity of proline as well as hydroxyproline in collagen from the ascorbic acid-deficient animals. However, the proline/hydroxyproline specific-radioactivity ratio in all samples from scorbutic animals was consistently slightly above 1:1. The results suggest the appearance in place of collagen, but in rapidly diminishing amounts, of a partially hydroxylated collagen in which the degree of hydroxylation may be decreased only by approx. 10%. Incorporation of radioactivity into the diffusible hydroxyproline in skin remained relatively high despite the rapid decline in the incorporation of radioactivity into collagen. This observation is interpreted as indicative of an increasing degree of degradation of partially hydroxylated collagen to diffusible peptides. An alternative explanation might be that partially hydroxylated peptides are released to an increasing extent from ribosomes before they attain a length at least sufficient to render them non-diffusible. In either case it implies the accumulation in scurvy of low-molecular-weight peptides enriched in proline and deficient in hydroxyproline and could explain the failure to accumulate a high-molecular-weight collagen deficient in hydroxyproline. It is thought, however, that, in addition, an inhibition of ribosomal amino acid incorporation leading to decreased synthesis of partially hydroxylated collagen may also occur, perhaps secondarily to impaired hydroxylation.
Respiratory responses to altered P(a, O2) at constant P(a, CO2) and altered P(a, CO2) at constant P(a, O2) were measured in fourteen unanaesthetized ducks 5-9 weeks old.2. All the ducks responded to the inhalation of a few breaths of 100% O(2) with a fall in V(E) of between 11 and 17% of control, and to the reduction in P(a, O2) from control levels (93-101 mm Hg) to 38-47 mm Hg with an average increase in V(E) of 190% of control which was potentiated by raising the level of CO(2).3. Ventilation approximately doubled when P(a, CO2) was raised to 55 mm Hg, the greatest sensitivity to changes in P(a, CO2) being over the range 40-45 mm Hg.4. Carotid body denervation was carried out in nine ducks and the respiratory responses were modified. The fall in V(E) with inhalation of 100% O(2) was abolished in all ducks and the rise in V(E) with hypoxia was abolished in six. The increase in V(E) as P(a, CO2) was altered in steps was unaffected but the rate at which V(E) increased in response to 4% CO(2) was markedly reduced.5. It is concluded that the chemoreceptor regulation of respiration in ducks is similar to that observed in non-diving animals.
This report of 14 Thai patients describes the clinical features of a symptom-complex we have termed recurrent multiple cranial nerve palsies. While the disorder is common in South Eastern Asia, patients suffering similar symptoms have been seen in Europe and America. Characteristically, a long prodromal headache precedes the abrupt onset of multiple cranial nerve palsies affecting predominantly, although not exclusively, the oculomotor and facial nerves. Symptoms are self-limited and steroid therapy hastens recovery in most cases. Recurrence after many months or years is not uncommon and different cranial nerves may then be affected. Wider neurological involvement seems not to occur. Although the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is frequently elevated there is no other evidence of co-existing systemic disease. The single necropsy study thus far reported indicates that the pathogenesis of the syndrome is granulomatous inflammation of the meninges (dura), adjacent to, and involving the perineurium of cranial nerves. It is uncertain whether this inflammation is a response to a single agent, as yet unidentified, or a focal and selective hypersensitivity reaction of connective tissue to a number of different factors. As a clinical entity the syndrome is distinctive, international, and deserving of wide recognition.
Perineurial cysts may be responsible for clinical symptoms and a cure effected by their removal. They do not fill on initial myelography but may fill with Pantopaque some time, days or weeks, after Pantopaque has been instilled into the subarachnoid space. Perineurial cysts arise at the site of the posterior root ganglion. The cyst wall is composed of neural tissue. When initial myelography fails to reveal an adequate cause for the patient's symptoms and signs referable to the caudal nerve roots, then about a millilitre of Pantopaque should be left in the canal for delayed myelography which may later reveal a sacral perineurial cyst or, occasionally, a meningeal cyst. Meningeal diverticula occur proximal to the posterior root ganglia and usually fill on initial myelography. They are in free communication with the subarachnoid space and are rarely in my experience responsible for clinical symptoms. Meningeal diverticula and meningeal cysts appear to represent a continuum. Pantopaque left in the subarachnoid space may convert a meningeal diverticulum into an expanding symptomatic meningeal cyst, as in the case described. Many cases described as perineurial cysts represent abnormally long arachnoidal prolongations over nerve roots or meningeal diverticula. In general, neither of the latter is of pathological significance. Perineurial, like meningeal cysts and diverticula, may be asymptomatic. They should be operated upon only if they produce progressive or disabling symptoms or signs clearly attributable to them. When myelography must be done, and this should be done only as a preliminary to a probable necessary operation, then patient effort should be made to remove the Pantopaque.
Antimelanoma antibodies previously demonstrated in the serum of melanoma patients by immunofluorescence have now been detected by a sensitive and quantitative complement fixation technique. The melanoma-specific antibodies detected by both of these techniques show a remarkable correlation with the stage of disease. Study of serums from 63 melanoma patients showed that both the incidence and titer of antibodies to the tumor antigens of malignant melanoma were found to be higher in patients with localized melanoma than in those with widespread metastatic disease. Furthermore, study of serial serum specimens on melanoma patients revealed a drop in antibody titer to undetectable levels with advancing metastatic disease. Additional evidence for the importance of immunological factors in this disease came from studies of delayed cutaneous hypersensitivity in melanoma patients. All patients with localized melanoma were capable of being sensitized to DNCB, whereas all patients who could not manifest delayed cutaneous hypersensitivity to this chemical had widespread metastatic disease. Eight melanoma patients were treated with immunotherapy using BCG as an immunological adjuvant. This therapy produced a rising titer of antimelanoma antibody and temporary tumor regression in five patients. However, only one of these patients has had a complete regression and remains free of disease at two years following treatment. There was a good correlation between the patient's immunological competence and his response to immunotherapy. All patients who could be sensitized to DNCB or tuberculin and developed a fourfold rise in antibody titer had some response to immunotherapy, whereas anergic patients failed to respond to this therapy. These studies indicate that the host immune response to malignant melanoma is an important factor in controlling the progression of this disease. Therefore, immunotherapy may become a useful adjunct to the primary surgical therapy of malignant melanoma.
Tissue carnitine levels have been measured in man and the dog. Skeletal muscle carnitine levels rise in the dog with starvation to roughly twice the normal level. An equal degree of starvation plus peritonitis is associated with unchanged skeletal muscle carnitine levels. In the presence of peritonitis, sequential skeletal muscle biopsies show a progressive fall in the tissue carnitine levels with a subsequent rise in those animals which survive and clear their peritonitis. Normal human skeletal muscle levels are essentially the same as in the dog. A combination of sepsis and starvation in man is associated with essentially unchanged skeletal muscle carnitine levels, whereas pure sepsis without starvation is associated with decreased skeletal muscle carnitine levels. It is suggested that these changes are in the direction expected for a limitation of fat catabolism and, in the presence of a limited exogenous source of glucose, that this would result secondarily in a protein catabolic state to supply glucose for the body's energy needs.
Of a group of 723 men less than 40 years old who underwent cinecoronary arteriography primarily for evaluation of chest pain, 357 (49%) were found to have at least 50% narrowing of one or more coronary arteries. The youngest person was 17 years old. The distribution of lesions in the young men was similar to that found earlier in a study of persons not selected by age. The anterior descending coronary artery was most frequently affected; the right coronary artery was most often totally occluded. No total occlusions of the left main coronary artery were seen. Electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial infarction, found in 109 patients, was less common with disease of the circumflex or right coronary arteries than with disease of the anterior descending coronary artery. This observation was confirmed by examination of left ventriculograms for areas of decreased contractility. Six patients had no significant arterial narrowing. The extent of arterial involvement seemed to be related to the duration of symptoms in patients who had angina pectoris or myocardial infarctions. Clinical diagnoses correlated well with the angiographic findings, particularly in those men considered to be normal and those with typical angina pectoris. Addition of atypical features or prolonged pain decreased the degree of correlation. Only 20% of those with cholesterol levels less than 200 mg/100 ml had significant lesions, whereas 81% with levels more than 275 mg/100 ml had such findings.
A method of establishing sublines by trocar transplantation in vivo was used to analyze possible cellular heterogeneity with regard to tumor-specific antigens in individual methylcholanthrene-induced sarcomas. Differences in antigenic specificity were found in at least 1 of the 9 pairs of sublines obtained, respectively, from opposite poles of 9 different primary tumors. No evidence suggested such differences among 7 pairs of sublines similarly derived from later transplant generations. The lack of variation in antigenic specificity between members of subline pairs obtained from later transplant generation tumors suggested that antigenic specificity was a stable characteristic. Even when derived from later transplant generations, the sublines of a particular tumor sometimes differed in growth potential, and/or immunizing capacity, and/or responsiveness to immunity. There was little or no correlation between variations in the two parameters: immunizing capacity and responsiveness to immunity. These findings led to the interpretation that immunizing capacity and responsiveness to immunity behaved like partially independent variables, and that variations in these parameters probably depended on factors other than, or in addition to, cellular antigen content per se. The marked, random, spacial heterogeneity revealed within the tumors in cellular growth rate and antigenic properties suggests that changes seen during serial tumor transplantation are probably due to random clonal variation and subsequent selection.
Semantic difficulties arise when hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy is seen without obstruction and with congestive failure, and also when congestive cardiomyopathy is seen with gross hypertrophy but without heart failure. Retention of a small left ventricular cavity and a normal ejection fraction characterizes hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at all stages of the disorder. Congestive cardiomyopathy is recognized by the presence of a dilated left ventricular cavity and reduced ejection fraction regardless of the amount of hypertrophy and the presence or not of heart failure. Longevity in congestive cardiomyopathy seems to be promoted when hypertrophy is great relative to the amount of pump failure as measured by increase in cavity size. Conversely, death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is most likely when hypertrophy is greatest at a time when outflow tract obstruction has been replaced by inflow restriction caused by diminishing ventricular distensibility. Hypertrophy is thus beneficial and compensatory in congestive cardiomyopathy, whereas it may be the primary disorder and eventual cause of death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Reasons are given for believing that hypertension may have been the original cause of left ventricular dilatation in some case of congestive cardiomyopathy in which loss of stroke output thenceforward is followed by normotension. Development of severe hypertension in these patients after recovery from a prolonged period of left ventricular failure with normotension lends weight to this hypothesis. No fault has been found in the large or small coronary arteries in either hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or congestive cardiomyopathy when they have been examined in life by selective coronary angiography, or by histological methods in biopsy or post-mortem material. Coronary blood supply may be a limiting factor in the compensatory hypertrophy of congestive cardiomyopathy, and the ability to hypertrophy may explain the better prognosis of some patients. In hypertrophic cardiomyopathy excessive metabolic demand may not be met, and inadequacy of blood flow may contribute both to sudden death and to progressive replacement fibrosis in this disease. Histochemical and ultrastructural methods have failed to show any fundamental differences between hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and congestive cardiomyopathy, whereas conventional histology permits recognition of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and distinction both from congestive cardiomyopathy and from ;normal' secondary hypertrophy in organic aortic stenosis.
Acute ethanol intoxication was studied in 38 Wistar rats, 18 on a balanced diet and 20 on a high fat diet, fed by gavage on 47% ethanol in a dosage of from 3 to 12 g/kg body weight daily for periods ranging from three to 16 days. No macroscopic changes in pancreas or liver were found in any of these animals. Histological changes (venous congestion of the pancreas, the liver, and the kidneys) were found in rats given 4 g or more per kilogram. The only difference between the findings in rats given a balanced diet and those given a high fat diet was the development of fatty livers in the latter group. Chronic ethanol intoxication was studied in 45 Wistar rats, on a balanced diet, which were given 20% ethanol freely for 20 to 30 months. More than half the animals developed pancreatic lesions very similar to those of human chronic pancreatitis. The pathological changes, in foci surrounded by normal pancreatic tissue, were a reduction in acini, duct multiplication (probably by neogenesis), protein plugs, sometimes calcified in the ducts and sclerosis. Samples of pancreatic juice from four animals exposed to ethanol contained significantly higher protein concentrations than samples taken from two control animals. Protein precipitates appeared spontaneously in the pancreatic juice of the animals exposed to ethanol, but not in that of the controls. These findings are very similar to those in alcoholic pancreatitis in man, which has thus been reproduced for the first time in experimental animals. Beta-cell adenomata of the islets of Langerhans were observed in four of the rats exposed to ethanol.
Histologic studies of renal tissue were performed in 21 cases of IgG or IgA benign monoclonal gammopathy, in 19 cases of IgM monoclonal gammopathy, and in 11 cases of mixed idiopathic IgG-IgM cryoglobulinemias. Except for myeloma, glomerular lesions were very frequent. Amyloidosis was found in one patient with myeloma, in two with benign IgG gammopathy, and in three with Waldenström macroglobulinemia. Intraglomerular deposits were found in 13 patients. In 7 of these patients (6 with Waldenström macroglobulinemia, 1 with benign IgA monoclonal gammopathy), the deposits were isolated without cellular proliferation. In the other 6 patients (one with benign IgG monoclonal gammopathy, five with IgG-IgM cryoglobulinemias) the deposits were associated with severe endocapillary proliferation. Immunohistologic study showed the presence of immunoglobulins in these deposits. The immunoglobulin(s) present in the glomerular deposits was (were) similar to the serum monoclonal immunoglobulin or immunoglobulins of the cryoglobulin. Crystals were found in the glomerular endothelial cells in one case of benign IgG gammopathy. The significance of these lesions is briefly discussed.
The hemodynamic effects of tachycardia induced by atrial pacing were investigated in left ventricular failure of acute and healing experimental myocardial infarction in 20 intact, conscious dogs. Myocardial infarction was produced by gradual inflation of a balloon cuff device implanted around the left anterior descending coronary artery 10-15 days prior to the study. 1 hr after acute myocardial infarction, atrial pacing at a rate of 180 beats/min decreased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 19 to 8 mm Hg and left atrial pressure from 17 to 12 mm Hg, without change in cardiac output. In the healing phase of myocardial infarction 1 wk later, atrial pacing decreased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 17 to 9 mm Hg and increased the cardiac output by 37%. This was accompanied by evidence of peripheral vasodilation. In two dogs with healing anterior wall myocardial infarction, left ventricular failure was enhanced by partial occlusion of the circumflex coronary artery. Both the dogs developed pulmonary edema. Pacing improved left ventricular performance and relieved pulmonary edema in both animals. In six animals propranolol was given after acute infarction, and left ventricular function deteriorated further. However the pacing-induced augmentation of cardiac function was unaltered and, hence, is not mediated by sympathetics.The results show that the spontaneous heart rate in left ventricular failure of experimental canine myocardial infarction may be less than optimal and that maximal cardiac function may be achieved at higher heart rates.
The goals in bone marrow transplantation are its application to the treatment of diseases arising in the blood-forming tissues of man. Techniques for procuring and grafting marrow are of the needle-and-syringe type and are based on the normal physiological processes in which stem cells circulate through blood and other fluids of the mammalian organism. Destruction of bone marrow by irradiation, chemicals, or unknown agencies provides the immediate experimental system for demonstrating the therapeutic value of marrow transplants. Genetic diseases characterized by abnormal marrow function are also modifiable by grafts of blood-forming tissues. Studies with identical twins are critical experiments for showing the clinical value of grafts, even though the transplanted cells cannot be identified by the usual marker techniques. Among the best results seen with marrow grafting is the presumed cure of certain rare hereditary immune-deficiency disorders of children. A major problem in bone marrow transplantation-one that delays its wider clinical application-is the immune reaction from cells growing out of the foreign transplant which attack the host (the graft-versus-host reaction). Attempts to use a graft-versus-host response to eliminate tumor cells is a part of the marrow research program. The history of the processes that led to some of the achieved goals in marrow grafting shows the usual multicentric origin of an idea. Certain individuals play critical roles in developing the idea. Finally, a body of knowledge is accumulated that opens up or limits prospects for the future. In bone marrow transplantati on, future achievements will depend in part on the progress that is made in the areas of cell separation, bone marrow banking, and tissue culture.
In penetrating the heart and developing in it, Trypanosoma cruzi produces an immunoallergic reaction that leads to changes in the histological structure of the myocardium; these changes alter the fundamental properties of the heart, causing fundamental dynamic disorders and morphological changes in the organ.In Chagas' cardiomyopathy, the velocity of impulse propagation diminishes in the auricular and ventricular musculature, altering the activation mechanism, this being shown by changes in the P-wave and in ventricular focal blocks.The functional refractory period (FRP) is shortened in the auricular and ventricular tissue and constitutes, together with changes in conductivity, the physiopathological basis that explains the circus movement-the fundamental factor of the arrhythmias of this stage of the disease. Localization of the inflammation in the A-V conduction system increases the duration of the FRP, producing all types of A-V block.The oedema and the cellular interstitial infiltration seen during this acute phase reduce the distensibility of the fibres; this, in turn, limits their contractility, producing a decrease in systolic volume and an increase in the final diastolic pressure in the chambers of the heart-fundamental factors in reducing kinesia and in increasing the heart's volume.In the chronic phase, destruction of the contractile tissue and fibroblastic proliferation bring into play compensatory mechanisms that maintain the strength of cardiac contractions; the elongation of the fibres and the nature of the dynamic pressure-volume curves explain the dilatation of the chambers of the heart and the dynamic changes seen in this phase of the disease.
Twenty-six cases of Crohn's disease of the colon treated by total colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis have been examined. Recurrent disease at the anastomosis occurred in 50% of patients, three-quarters of these within 18 months and the latest six years after operation. Patients with disease apparent only in the colon at the primary operation developed ileal recurrence at the anastomosis as commonly as those with both ileum and colon involved initially. Recurrence in the small intestine away from the anastomosis was uncommon. The response of recurrent disease to medical treatment was encouraging and further surgical intervention has been avoided in the majority of cases. Complicated anal fistulae developed in 20% of patients up to seven years after ileo-rectal anastomosis. They materially affected the management of the individual patient but most responded to conventional surgical treatment after a prolonged healing period.Ileo-rectal anastomosis for Crohn's disease of the colon has had a lower operative morbidity than the same operation performed for ulcerative colitis, but the long-term prognosis has been worse because of the development of recurrent disease and serious anal lesions.
Patients with chronic uremia develop neurologic defects which are similar to the demyelinating lesions seen in thiamine deficiency. The present study describes inhibitory effects of uremic material on nervous tissue transketolase, a thiamine-dependent enzyme of the pentose phosphate pathway which has been reported to have functional importance in the metabolism of myelinated nervous structures. Transketolase activity (TKA) of normal human brain and spinal cord was measured by the conversion of ribose-5-phosphate (R5P) to sedoheptulose-7-phosphate (S7P). TKA was significantly inhibited by plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and low molecular weight dialysate fractions obtained from patients with uremic neuropathy, but not by samples from normal subjects. The specific effect on transketolase by uremic material was established by showing suppressed formation of S7P from R5P also in the presence of excess cofactor thiamine pyrophosphate and of the other substrate xylulose-5-phosphate. Uremic plasma likewise inhibited a partially purified transketolase preparation from bakers' yeast.31 of 35 chronic uremic patients with inhibition values between 10 and 84% before or during the early phase of intermittent hemodialysis had evidence of neuropathy. Data of clinical grading of the neurologic deficits and values of motor nerve conduction velocity revealed a correlation between the extent of uremic neuropathy and the degree of nervous tissue transketolase inhibition. Hemodialysis markedly reduced the inhibitory effects of the patients' plasma and the data indicate that uremic patients who received effective long-term dialysis treatment show a parallel decline of transketolase inhibition and uremic neuropathy.The findings demonstrate that in patients with chronic renal failure, low molecular weight factors accumulate and inhibit nervous tissue transketolase. This biochemical defect-uncorrectable by thiamine but reversible by dialysis-may interfere with the metabolism of myelin-supporting cells, and/or of the axonal metabolism of medullated structures, and may thus contribute to the degeneration of myelinated nerves seen with uremic neuropathy.
An unusual microscopic abnormality has been identified in the lobectomy specimens removed surgically from the brains of 10 epileptic patients. The abnormality could seldom be identified by palpation or with the naked eye. Histologically, it consisted of congregations of large, bizarre neurones which were littered through all but the first cortical layer. In most, but not in all cases, grotesque cells, probably of glial origin, were also present in the depths of the affected cortex and in the subjacent white matter. This kind of abnormality appears to be a malformation. The picture is reminiscent of tuberous sclerosis but too many distinguishing features, both in the clinical and in the pathological aspects, make this diagnosis untenable. The cases are therefore looked on provisionally (since all but one are still alive) as comprising a distinct form of cortical dysplasia in which localized, exotic populations of nerve cells underlie the electrical and clinical manifestations of certain focal forms of epilepsy.
Elastin preparations from intimal layers and the media of normal and atherosclerotic human aortae were analyzed for protein and lipid content. In atherosclerotic aortae, elastin from plaques was compared with elastin from adjacent normal appearing areas of the same aorta. Arterial elastin purified by alkaline extraction appeared to be a protein-lipid complex containing free and ester cholesterol, phospholipids, and triglycerides. The lipid component of normal arterial elastin was small (1-2%). With increasing severity of atherosclerosis, there was a progressive accumulation of lipid in intimal elastin from plaques, reaching a mean lipid content of 37% in severe plaques. The increase in the lipid content of plaque elastic preparations was mainly due to large increases in cholesterol, over 80% of which was cholesteryl ester. This deposition of cholesterol in plaque elastin accounted for 20-34% of the total cholesterol content of the plaque. The increased lipid deposition in plaque elastin was associated with alterations in the amino acid composition of plaque elastin. In elastin from plaque intima, the following polar amino acids were increased significantly: aspartic acid, threonine, serine, glutamic acid, lysine, histidine, and arginine; whereas, cross-linking amino acids: desmosine, isodesmosine, and lysinonorleucine were decreased significantly. The amino acid and lipid composition of elastin from normal appearing aortic areas was comparable to that of normal arterial elastin except for intimal elastin directly adjacent to and medial elastin directly below the most severe plaques.The data indicate that the focal lipid deposition in early atherosclerotic plaques is due to a large extent to lipid accumulations in altered elastin protein of localized intimal areas. Continued lipid deposition in altered elastin appears to contribute substantially to the progressive lipid accumulation in the plaque. The study suggests that elastin of intimal elastic membranes may play an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of atherosclerosis.
The mechanism of renal potassium wasting in renal tubular acidosis associated with the Fanconi syndrome (type 2 RTA) was investigated in 10 patients, each of whom had impaired proximal renal tubular reabsorption of bicarbonate as judged from a greater than 15-20% reduction of renal tubular bicarbonate reabsorption (THCO(3) (-)) at normal plasma bicarbonate concentrations. When the plasma bicarbonate concentration ([HCO(3) (-)]p) was experimentally increased to normal levels in three patients with a fractional potassium excretion (C(K)/C(in)) of less than 1.0 during acidosis, C(K)/C(in) and urinary potassium excretion (U(K)V/C(in)) increased strikingly and concurrently with a striking increase in urinary sodium (U(Na)V/C(in)) and bicarbonate (U(HCO3-)V/C(in)) excretion. When [HCO(3) (-)]p was increased to normal levels in two patients with a C(K)/C(in) of greater than 1.0 during acidosis and in whom U(Na)V/C(in) and U(HCO3-)V/C(in) were already markedly increased, C(K)/C(in) did not increase further. When [HCO(3) (-)]p was decreased to subnormal levels in a patient given ammonium chloride, U(K)V/C(in), C(K)/C(in), and U(HCO3-)V/C(in) decreased concurrently. In the six patients in whom [HCO(3) (-)]p was maintained at normal levels (oral alkali therapy) for 2 months or longer, C(K)/C(in) was directly related to the urinary excretion rates of sodium and bicarbonate, hence was directly related to the magnitude of reduction of THCO(3) (-) at normal [HCO(3) (-)]p; C(K)/C(in) was greater than 0.55 in all six patients and greater than 1.0 in four. In eight patients with classic RTA (type 1 RTA), proximal renal tubular reabsorption of bicarbonate was largely intact as judged from a trivial reduction of THCO(3) (-) at normal [HCO(3) (-)]p. When [HCO(3) (-)]p was either increased from subnormal to normal levels, or decreased from normal to subnormal levels, U(HCO3-)V/C(in) remained essentially constant, and U(K)V/C(in) did not change significantly. When correction of acidosis was sustained, U(HCO3-)V/C(in) remained a trivial fraction of that filtered, and C(K)/C(in) was consistently less than 0.55. These results provide evidence that renal potassium wasting in type 2 RTA is physiologically separable from that in type 1 RTA and in part the result of a reduction in the rate at which the proximal tubule reabsorbs bicarbonate and the distal delivery of supernormal amounts of sodium bicarbonate. With an increased stimulus to distal sodium reabsorption, indicated by the finding of hyperaldosteronism, delivery to the distal nephron of supernormal amounts of sodium with the relatively impermeant bicarbonate anion would be expected to increase intraluminal negativity in the distal nephron, and as a consequence, increase potassium secretion and promote renal potassium wasting.
The present study was prompted by the observation that, in patients with chronic renal failure being followed at this center, renal osteodystrophy developed almost exclusively in those who were treated by chronic hemodialysis at home rather than in our center. A systematic comparison was made between the 10 patients with roentgenographic evidence of the bone disease and 18 patients without demonstrable bone disease. The two groups were similar in age, sex, nature of renal disease, and duration of dialysis. The mean duration of kidney disease was almost 2 yr longer in the patients without bone disease than in those with bone disease. Other significant differences related to where the hemodialysis was performed and to the calcium concentration in the dialysate (6.0-7.4 mg/100 ml in the hospital and 4.9-5.6 mg/100 ml at home). If the unknown factors related to where the dialysis was performed were of no consequence, the major factor contributing to the production of bone disease observed in these patients was the use of a dialysate with a calcium concentration less than 5.7 mg/100 ml.
IN TWO PATIENTS WITH CLASSIC RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS (RTA) AND IN TWO PATIENTS WITH RTA ASSOCIATED WITH THE FANCONI SYNDROME, RENAL POTASSIUM WASTING PERSISTED DESPITE SUSTAINED CORRECTION OF ACIDOSIS: during moderate degrees of hypokalemia, daily urinary excretion of potassium exceeded 80 mEq in each patient; during more severe degrees of hypokalemia, daily urinary excretion of potassium exceeded 40 mEq in two patients and 100 mEq in another. These urinary excretion rates of potassium are more than twice those observed in potassium-depleted normal subjects with even minimal degrees of hypokalemia. The persistence of renal potassium wasting may have resulted in part from hyperaldosteronism, since urinary aldosterone was frankly increased in two patients and was probably abnormally high in the others relative to the degree of their potassium depletion. The hyperaldosteronism persisted despite sustained correction of acidosis, a normal sodium intake, and no reduction in measured plasma volume, and was not associated with hypertension; its cause was not defined. In the two patients with classic RTA, neither renal potassium wasting nor hyperaldosteronism could be explained as a consequence of a gradient restriction on renal H(+) - Na(+) exchange because the urinary pH remained greater than, or approximately equal to, the normal arterial pH or considerably greater than the minimal urinary pH attained during acidosis. The findings provide no support for the traditional view that renal potassium wasting in either classic RTA or RTA associated with the Fanconi syndrome is predictably corrected solely by sustained correction of acidosis with alkali therapy.
Radioisotope studies of bilirubin turnover, ferrokinetics, and red cell survival ((51)Cr) in a patient with erythrocyte PK deficiency have provided evidence for prompt reticulocyte sequestration and destruction by the reticuloendothelial system. More mature erythrocytes appeared to survive well despite their deficiency of PK. PK-deficient reticulocytes, dependent upon oxidative phosphorylation for ATP production, are exquisitely sensitive to cyanide- or nitrogen-induced mitochondrial inhibition. If oxidative phosphorylation is unavailable, ATP levels decline rapidly, producing alterations in the cell membrane which allow massive losses of potassium and water. The result is a shrunken, spiculated, viscous cell whose rheologic properties would favor its sequestration by the reticuloendothelial system. Those reticulocytes with particularly low levels of PK exhibit very low glycolytic rates and thus are uniquely reliant upon oxidative phosphorylation. Other reticulocytes, better endowed with PK activity, can meet the increased ATP requirements of young erythrocytes. Upon reaching maturity, such cells have diminished ATP needs and can, therefore, survive despite their enzyme deficiency.
Retrospective study of the diagnosis and management of the 8 cases of thyroid storm in a series of 400 hyperthyroid patients led to conclusion that thyroid storm is a clinical diagnosis based on a life-endangering illness in a hyperthyroid patient whose hyperthyroidism has been severely exacerbated by a serious precipitating illness, and that storm is manifest by the symptoms of hyperpyrexia, tachycardia and striking alterations in consciousness. No laboratory tests were diagnostic of storm, and the underlying precipitating cause of thyroid storm was the major determinant of survival. Vigorous therapy must include blocking synthesis of thyroid hormones with antithyroid drugs, blocking release of preformed hormone with iodine, meticulous attention to hydration and supportive therapy, as well as correction of precipitating cause of storm. The blocking of the sympathetic nervous system with reserpine or guanethidine or with alpha and beta blocking drugs may be exceedingly hazardous and requires skillful management and constant monitoring in a critically ill patient.
Ketone-body utilization in fed and starved adult and suckling rats has been investigated by measuring arterio-venous differences across the brain. Venous blood was collected from the confluence of sinuses and arterial blood from the femoral artery in adult rats and by cardiac puncture in suckling rats. During starvation the arterio-venous difference of ketone bodies increased in proportion to their concentrations in the blood and reached a value of 0.16mm at 48h. At a given concentration of the respective ketone bodies the arterio-venous differences of acetoacetate were about twice those of 3-hydroxybutyrate. Fed rats in which the concentrations of ketone bodies were raised by intravenous infusion of sodium acetoacetate had the same arterio-venous differences as starved rats at corresponding ketone-body concentrations. Thus the ability of the rat brain to utilize ketone bodies is independent of the nutritional state. The concentrations of glucose, acetoacetate and 3-hydroxybutyrate were much lower in the brain than in the arterial blood. The measured (blood concentration)/(brain concentration) ratio was 4.4 for glucose, 4.5 for acetoacetate and 8.1 for 3-hydroxybutyrate in 48h-starved rats. The mean arterio-venous difference of glucose across the brain was 0.51mm in fed rats and 0.43mm in 96h-starved rats. Conversion of glucose into lactate rose from negligible values in the fed state to 0.2mm after 48h starvation and decreased to zero after 96h starvation. In 16-22-day-old suckling rats the arterio-venous differences of ketone bodies across the brain were also proportional to the ketone-body concentration, but they were about 3-4 times greater than in adult rats at the same blood ketone-body concentration. Arterio-venous differences of glucose were about the same in adult and suckling rats. The brain of fed suckling rats formed more lactate from glucose than fed adult rats. The results indicate that ketone bodies are major metabolic fuels of the brain of the suckling rat under normal conditions.
In a series of 64 cases of elective end-to-side portacaval shunts performed for liver disease the success rate-in that the patient survived with a patent shunt, free of subsequent haemorrhage and severe encephalopathy-was 48%.The early postoperative death rate was 12.5% and the five-year survival 65%. Bleeding from oesophagogastric varices after blockage of the shunt was responsible for at least half of the early postoperative deaths, and most late deaths were due to liver failure. A decreased chance of late survival was associated with age over 40 years, active chronic hepatitis, and with a preoperative history of hepatocellular jaundice.Shunt blockage occurred in 16% of patients, and all bled again from oesophagogastric varices. Shunt block is more likely if the portal vein is calcified or thrombosed, and may be more likely if the portal vein diameter, as shown by splenic venography, is 1.5 cm or less.In survivors with a patent shunt the most serious late complication was chronic, severe portal-systemic encephalopathy, which occurred in 38%. Severe encephalopathy was associated with age over 40 years, a preoperative history of any degree of encephalopathy, diabetes mellitus, and with continued drinking in the alcoholic. Most patients who had portal-systemic encephalopathy in the first year postoperatively developed chronic disabling encephalopathy.A preoperative history of transient mild or moderate ascites did not seem adversely to influence the outcome.
At short intervals after the intravenous administration of oestradiol-17beta, diethylstilboestrol, testosterone or saline control solution to ovariectomized rats, highly purified lysosome samples were prepared in substantial yield from preputial glands, sex accessory organs rich in these organelles. The preparations were essentially devoid of mitochondrial contamination. Exposure in vivo to doses of these hormones varying from 0.1 to 5mug/100g body wt. provoked dose-dependent labilization of the lysosomal membrane surface, as evidenced by significantly diminished structural latency of several characteristic acid hydrolases, including acid phosphatase, beta-glucuronidase and acid ribonuclease II, when such preparations were subsequently challenged in vitro with autolytic conditions, detergent or mechanical stress. Enhanced lytic susceptibility induced by hormone pretreatment was occasionally detectable in the initial preparation without further provocative stimuli in vitro. Comparable results were obtained with the corresponding fractions of uterus, despite the more limited concentration of lysosomes in this steroidal target organ. By the present criteria oestradiol-17alpha was essentially inert, even in a dose 25 times that effective for its active beta-epimer (<0.1mug/100g body wt.). Pretreatment with diethylstilboestrol exerted substantial membrane-destabilizing influence in preputial-gland lysosome samples from orchidectomized rats. Moreover, administration of testosterone to gonadectomized animals resulted in essentially equivalent dose-dependent augmentation of lysosomal enzyme release in preputial-gland preparations of either sex. The membrane stability of lysosome-enriched preparations from uterus, on the other hand, was unaffected by testosterone pretreatment. The sensitivity, specificity and selectivity of the lysosomal response to sex steroids provide evidence for the physiological significance of this phenomenon as a general mechanism for mediation of secondary biochemical transformations in the hormone-stimulated target cell.
Gastrointestinal disease other than hepatobiliary and pancreatic disorders was associated with hourly rates of urinary amylase excretion above the limits of normal for control subjects (88 IU/hour compared with 69 IU/hour). In hepatobiliary disease, excretion rates of more than 88 but usually less than 190 IU/hour were sometimes found. Whilst rates of urinary amylase excretion were not helpful in the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis or carcinoma of the pancreas, levels above 190 IU/hour were found in acute pancreatitis at a time when the serum levels were also diagnostic. After the acute episode the rate of urinary amylase excretion was moderately elevated for up to six days but did not reach diagnostic levels. Persistent elevation of serum amylase and lipase levels and hourly rates of urinary amylase excretion for more than six days suggested that a pseudocyst had developed. In acute pancreatitis the level of serum lipase was more frequently raised and persisted so for longer than either the serum or urinary amylase. Although the hourly rate of urinary amylase excretion is of little value alone, when performed in conjunction with evaluating the serum amylase and lipase it may provide useful additional evidence of pancreatic disease and it could be useful in the diagnosis of relapsing chronic pancreatitis.
The concentrations of adrenaline and noradrenaline in the adrenal vein and the adrenal gland of the cat were studied in response to different stimuli leading to increased catecholamine (CA) secretion.2. Haemorrhage and hypoglycaemia, but not acute exposure to cold or intravenous administration of cocaine, induced considerable increases in total catecholamine secretion.3. The ratio of the concentration of adrenaline to noradrenaline in adrenal vein plasma during the control period was higher than the ratio in the adrenal gland itself.4. Haemorrhage increased noradrenaline secretion considerably more than adrenaline secretion so that the ratio of the concentration of adrenaline to noradrenaline in adrenal vein plasma was significantly lower than in the adrenal gland itself.5. Hypoglycaemia induced by insulin increased catecholamine secretion, with the adrenaline to noradrenaline ratio significantly higher than in the adrenal gland itself.6. Hypothermia resulted in a fall of the initial high ratio of adrenaline to noradrenaline, to a value similar to that in the adrenal gland.7. Neither cocaine nor changes in adrenal plasma flow affected the adrenaline to noradrenaline ratio in adrenal vein blood.8. It is concluded that preferential release from the adrenal gland of either adrenaline or noradrenaline is possible in vivo in response to different stimuli.
Experimental Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia in the Syrian hamster resembles natural disease of man and is characterized by peribronchial round cells as well as exudates in the air passages. The nature of these intralumenal exudates was analyzed to assess host-parasite interaction at the respiratory epithelial surface, where infection with the mycoplasma is concentrated. Cells recovered by tracheobronchial lavage revealed changing patterns during the course of experimental disease; free macrophages decreased, polymorphonuclear leukocytes increased, and rosettes of epithelial cells surrounded by leukocytes appeared. Studies on formation of the rosettes in vitro with M. pneumoniae, sera, and cells suggested that complement-dependent immune phenomena were involved. The cellular events were maximal by 2 weeks after inoculation of normal hamsters. When previously infected animals were challenged, the course of infection was shortened, peribronchial infiltrates appeared rapidly, and development of exudates was both exaggerated and accelerated. These findings suggest that leukocytes entering the pulmonary parenchyma and lumen participate in the immune response to M. pneumoniae and contribute to host protection.
Rats lesioned unilaterally in the substantia nigra show no obvious abnormalities after recovery from the operation but rotate towards the lesioned side after administration of drugs of the amphetamine and ephedrine groups.2. (+)-Amphetamine and (-)-amphetamine are equally potent in producing turning behaviour but (+)-methylamphetamine is considerably more effective.3. (-)-Ephedrine (with a beta-OH group on the ethylamine side chain) induces turning but only in doses approximately 20 times greater than (+)-methylamphetamine.4. (+)-Norpseudoephedrine was the most effective of the ephedrine isomers tested followed by (-)-ephedrine and (+)-pseudoephedrine.5. Turning produced by (-)-ephedrine and (+)-methylamphetamine is not reduced by FLA63 (50 mg/kg) 4 h previously, but is almost completely inhibited by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (150 mg/kg) 12 h previously.6. Reserpine pretreatment potentiates turning produced by (-)-ephedrine.7. Chlorpromazine (5 mg/kg) completely blocks turning induced by (+)-methylamphetamine although it concurrently increases exploratory activity. The level of exploratory activity after the (+)-methylamphetamine-chlorpromazine combination is more than 3 times that attained after saline alone.
Serum and red cell folate levels and serum vitamin B(12) levels have been estimated in 33 normal controls; 34 epileptic outpatients, 19 of whom also suffered from psychiatric illness; 33 epileptic inpatients with psychiatric illness; and 30 non-epileptic inpatients with psychiatric illness. Significant lowering of serum folate and red cell folate levels was observed in epileptic patients with psychiatric illness, and a less significant fall in red cell folate levels was found in non-epileptic psychiatric patients. Serum folate levels less than 2·5 ng/ml. were found in two controls, seven outpatient epileptics, 29 inpatients, and 10 non-epileptic patients. Red cell folate levels less than 100 ng/ml. were found in two controls, nine outpatient epileptics, 23 inpatient epileptics, and seven non-epileptic patients. A significant correlation was found between serum and red cell folate values in control, epileptic, and non-epileptic patients. In the epileptic patients there was a significant association between low serum and red cell folate levels and the presence of psychiatric illness. The origin and possible significance of these findings are discussed.
Weakness of the external eye muscles was believed to be of genetic origin in 94 of 97 patients studied and was familial in 73 patients. Thirty patients had congenital ptosis alone or with weakness of other ocular muscles. The lack of progression and high incidence of other congenital anomalies suggested that congenital ptosis had in most instances a development etiology. Neurogenic congenital ptosis was documented in one instance and was suspected in another patient. The most common causes of progressive ophthalmaplegia with onset after birth was myotonic dystrophy and ocular muscle dystrophy. On clinical and genetic grounds, ptosis associated with retinitis pigmentosa was considered as a distinct disease and there was no conclusive evidence that ocular muscle dystrophy and oculopharyneal dystrophy were separate diseases. The relatively high incidence of familial myasthenia gravis was probably due to the selection of the patients. Two pairs of sibs with "chondrodystrophic myotonia" were included in the study. Progressive external ophthalmoplegia with onset after birth was neurogenic in three instanced. It accompanied motor neuron disease, Kugelberg-Welander disease and an undertermined disease affecting the central and peripheral nervous system, each in one patient.
Ultrastructural aspects of some of the conditions usually included as "leukodystrophies" are described. In metachromatic leukodystrophy, the most striking ultrastructural features include a variety of inclusions within cells some of which can be identified as oligodendroglia. Some inclusions were relatively amorphous while others possess a well-defined lamellar pattern. The fine structure of the globoid-epithelioid cells of Krabbe's disease differs from that of the usual macrophage and contains membrane-bound areas of relative translucency as well as abundant amorphous moderately osmiophiclic deposits. Epithelioid cells are seen in the perivascular spaces which favors their origin from mesodermal elements and is against their being derived from macroglia. In sudanophilic leukodystrophy there are macrophages which are not distinguishable from macrophages seen in areas of myelin destruction from whatever cause. In the spongy degeneration of infants, there is a peculiar myelin abnormality with splitting of the intraperiod line of the myelin lamellae and the existance of large abnormal mitochondria in astrocyte cytoplasm. There may also be vaculolization of significance within oliogodendroglia cytoplasm. The Rosenthal fibers seen in Alexander's type of leukodystrophy appear as osmiophilic masses in astroyte cytoplasm and probably consist of altered glial filaments.
Over a five-year period, 1964-8, 48 cases of gonococcal ophthalmia neonatorum were notified to the department of venereology in Glasgow. Thirty-seven babies were born in hospital and 11 at home. The conjunctivitis, usually recorded as a "sticky eye," developed between 1 and 13 days of birth, 36 by the fourth day.Diagnosis by culture of Neisseria gonorrhoeae was delayed in some cases up to 30 days after the appearance of the signs for those born in hospital and 15 days for those born at home, usually because of the blind use of antibacterial eye-drops which produced temporary alleviation of the signs without eradicating the infection; chloramphenicol was noteworthy in this respect.A "sticky eye" will resolve without the use of antibacterial agents, ophthalmia neonatorum will not. When it is decided to use an antibacterial agent pretreatment conjunctival smears for immediate staining and swabs for culture should be taken and the case notified to the medical officer of health.Gonococcal ophthalmia is a preventable disease. In view of the obstetricians' already heavily committed clinical work load there is need for venereologists to collaborate, on consultation and within the maternity hospitals wherever possible, in the screening of antenatal patients for candidiasis and trichomoniasis as well as for gonorrhoea. Some target groups, those with a pathological vaginal discharge or with certain adverse social factors, warrant more thorough investigation, while all those treated require further examination to ensure cure.
The antifilarial action of 2-[2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-6-benzimidazolyl]-6-(1-methyl-4-piperazyl) benzimidazole (HOE 33258) was investigated in Mastomys natalensis infected with Litomosoides carinii. The subcutaneous administration of HOE 33258 in a single daily dose for 5 consecutive days, or at other intervals, produced, depending on the dosage, a rapid reduction in the number of microfilariae in the circulating blood. The reduction amounted to more than 90% within 7-14 days after the treatment was started or at the end of the dosage schedule. The small, slow increase in the microfilarial count during a period of 6-7 weeks after treatment ended reached not more than half the number present before treatment. HOE 33258 showed marked activity on the reproductive system of mature female worms, although only few macrofilariae were killed by the drug. The results also demonstrated the usefulness of L. carinii infection of M. natalensis as a model for the evaluation of the filaricidal activity of drugs.
A method allowing simultaneous assay of the tissue content of three forms of vitamin A (alcohol, ester, aldehyde) was applied for investigation of these forms in liver, kidneys, adrenals and blood plasma in rats with experimental hyper- and hypothyreosis. It is established that compared to control rats, hyperthyroid animals show increased content of vitamin A-alcohol in adrenals with simultaneous decrease in liver of vitamin A-alcohol and especially of its ester. It is supposed that these changes are directly induced by the action of thyroxine on vitamin A metabolism in tissues. During hyperthyreosis, content of vitamin A (alcohol and ester) in liver sharply falls and there is a tendency towards its decrease on blood plasma and adrenals. Approximately the same ratio of alcohol and ester of vitamin A in kidneys indicated its intensive metabolism in this organ. As judged from the absence of changes in content of vitamin A-aldehyde in organs, activation as well as suppression of the function of thyroid gland apparently is not followed by an increase in oxidative transformation of vitamin A in tissues.
Plasma concentration of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (IPTH) was measured in 18 patients who had been on a hemodialysis program for longer than 6 months. A negative correlation was found between the predialysis plasma concentration of IPTH and the mean concentration of calcium in the dialysate previously used: plasma concentrations of IPTH were higher in patients dialyzed against a calcium concentration between 4.9 and 5.6 mg/100 ml than in patients dialyzed against a calcium concentration of 6.0 mg/100 ml or more. Plasma concentrations of IPTH also were higher in patients with bone disease than in patients without bone disease. Furthermore, a positive correlation was found between predialysis plasma concentrations of IPTH and calcium, and between mean predialysis concentration of IPTH and phosphate. To obviate the possibility that individual differences in susceptibility could have accounted for the observed effects of plasma phosphate and of dialysate calcium, a 2 x 2 factorial study was conducted in seven of these patients to examine the independent effects of perturbation of each of these factors. It was observed that plasma concentration of IPTH was lowest with the combination of high dialysate calcium and low plasma phosphate, highest with the combination of low dialysate calcium and high plasma phosphate, and intermediate with the two other combinations. It is concluded that both dialysate calcium and plasma phosphate are important determinants of parathyroid function in these patients.
The mechanical behavior of isolated cat, rat, and dog ventricular muscle was examined during hypoxia and after reoxygenation. During hypoxia, an early abbreviation of tension duration was followed by a decline in the rate of tension development. After reoxygenation, a marked, early prolongation of tension development and relaxation time was invariably observed with little, if any, increase in peak tension. As recovery progressed, the duration of contraction gradually shortened as tension returned to control levels. This phenomenon was also observed in the intact dog heart after release of a coronary artery ligature. Isometric tension gauges sewn to ischemic portions of the left ventricle demonstrated that after reinstitution of coronary flow, segment tension duration "outlasts" the duration of left ventricular pressure development and is associated with ventricular irritability. Epicardial electrograms showed shortening of the QT interval within the ischemic segment with prolongation of the QT interval after release of the coronary ligature. Prolongation of tension development during recovery from hypoxia was not observed in experiments with rat skeletal muscle. These observations identify localized mechanical abnormalities during recovery from myocardial ischemia which may be important in the syndrome of acute coronary heart disease.
The recent reports of the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on hemoglobin affinity for oxygen suggested that this substance may play a role in man's adaptation to acidosis and alkalosis.A study of the effect of induced acidosis and alkalosis on the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of normal man was therefore carried out, and the mechanisms involved in the physiological regulation of hemoglobin oxygen affinity examined.In acute changes of plasma pH there was no alteration in red cell 2,3-DPG content. However, there were changes in hemoglobin oxygen affinity and these correlated with changes in mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). With maintained acidosis and alkalosis, red cell 2,3-DPG content was altered and correlated with the changes in hemoglobin oxygen affinity. Both of these mechanisms shift the hemoglobin oxygen dissociation curve opposite to the direct pH (Bohr) effect, and providing the rate of pH change is neither too rapid nor too large, they counteract the direct pH effect and the in vivo hemoglobin oxygen affinity remains unchanged. It is also shown that approximately 35% of the change in hemoglobin oxygen affinity resulting from an alteration in red cell 2,3-DPG, is explained by effect of 2,3-DPG on the red cell pH.
Trypsin and chymotrypsin concentrations were determined in 180 spot stool specimens from 110 control patients in hospital. The lower limit of normality for each enzyme was placed at the 5% level: 95% of this population excreted feces containing more than 100 mug. of chymotrypsin and 30 mug. of trypsin per g. of feces. Chymotrypsin concentrations appeared to be a more reliable guide to pancreatic function than trypsin concentrations.Fecal chymotrypsin concentrations were subnormal in five patients with chronic pancreatitis, borderline in one patient with relapsing pancreatitis, subnormal in one patient after pancreatectomy, and subnormal in five of nine with carcinoma of the pancreas. Subnormal concentrations of fecal chymotrypsin were found in seven of 21 patients with chronic liver disease related to alcoholism, eight of 32 with a partial gastrectomy, three of 10 with adult celiac disease and five of 16 with psoriasis.It appears that the determination of fecal chymotrypsin concentrations provides a valuable screening test for pancreatic exocrine deficiency. However, normal results may be found in some patients with pancreatic disease and subnormal values may occur in some patients with other conditions.
Fasting gastrin levels in serum were measured in 49 patients with different types of chronic gastritis and in matched controls. In 15 patients with established pernicious anaemia the mean (+/- S.E. of mean) level of gastrin was greatly raised (699 +/- 99 pg/ml). In 17 patients with chronic atrophic gastritis, seropositive for parietal cell antibody but with adequate vitamin-B(12) absorption, the level was also raised (476 +/- 74 pg/ml). By contrast, in "simple" atrophic gastritis seronegative for parietal cell antibody the gastrin levels were significantly lower for both diffuse atrophic gastritis (129 +/- 31 pg/ml) and multifocal gastritis (14 +/- 4 pg/ml). These levels were similar to those in the controls (46 +/- 7 pg/ml).The mechanism of the raised gastrin levels remains uncertain, but neither achlorhydria nor in vivo action of the parietal cell antibody wholly accounted for the hypergastrinaemia.We conclude that hypergastrinaemia is characteristic of gastritis associated with autoimmune reactions to gastric antigens and pernicious anaemia and that a raised serum gastrin is a useful marker of the type of gastritis that tends to progress to the gastric lesion of pernicious anaemia. The findings suggest that this type of gastritis is an essentially different disease from "simple" atrophic gastritis, and the differences in gastrin levels may be due to sparing of the antral mucosa in the autoimmune type but not in "simple" gastritis.
Total protein and deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) were measured in small-intestinal washings from rats with normal and high rates of dna (or cell) loss. There was a significant relationship between the loss of these two substances. Preparations of isolated viable epithelial cells contained much less protein in relation to dna than did the intestinal washings. It was calculated that only 8 to 15% of the protein lost by washing the rat small intestine arose from the intracellular protein of exfoliated epithelial cells. The rest was derived from extracellular sources.Protein and dna loss from small-bowel mucosa was measured in six patients. The ratio of protein to dna was similar to that found in the rats. The mean protein loss from 5 cm of human upper small intestine was 956 mug per min or 1.4 g per 24 hours. By calculation, total protein loss from the whole small intestine of man was about 84 g per day, about 10 g coming from within exfoliated cells and the rest arising from extracellular sources. The normal intestine must reabsorb most of this material.
Hypercalcaemia and hypercalciuria are common complications of advanced mammary cancer. Of 127 patients with the disease 63 (49.5%) had some abnormality of calcium balance. Eighteen (14%) of these patients developed severe progressive hypercalcaemia and became acutely ill.Most patients had skeletal metastases, and the usual cause of hypercalcaemia was rapid destruction of bone by the cancer. One patient with severe uncontrollable hypercalcaemia and minimal skeletal involvement probably developed the complication due to inappropriate secretion of a parathyroid-hormone-like substance by massive hepatic deposits.Severe hypercalcaemia was controlled successfully in 13 of the 18 patients, the serum calcium levels returning to normal and the acute symptoms disappearing. Unfortunately, successful correction of the hypercalcaemia rarely was followed by prolonged survival from the underlying malignant disease. The incidence of subsequent objective response to pituitary ablation was less than usual, and only three patients survived for more than one year after the episode of hypercalcaemia.
The clinical and pathological findings in 150 children submitted to partial or total nephrectomy have been reviewed. Histological examination of the kidney removed at operation showed evidence of renal dysplasia in 76 (51%). These 76 patients were divided into three main groups on the basis of the pathological changes found in the kidney and the associated urinary tract anomalies. In group 1, gross cystic renal dysplasia was associated with absence or atresia of the renal pelvis and ureter. In group 2, renal dysplasia was segmental; the ureter, although patent, had some anatomical or functional abnormality which resulted in urinary stasis or reflux. In many of these patients dysplasia was confined to the upper pole of a ;duplex' kidney which was drained by an ectopic ureterocele. In group 3, renal dysplasia was associated with obstruction of the lower urinary tract, most commonly by posterior urethral valves. In group 1 dysplasia was total, involving the whole kidney, whilst in groups 2 and 3 dysplasia tended to be segmental; in the majority some normal renal tissue was present. Pyelonephritis was a very common complication, but was present only in patients from groups 2 and 3, in whom a lumen was present in the draining ureter, and not in patients from group 1 in whom the ureter was atretic or absent, and the kidney not functioning. It appears that urinary obstruction, stasis, or reflux are the principal factors predisposing to and promoting pyelonephritis in dysplastic kidneys. There seems to be no reason to suppose that dysplastic renal tissue is abnormally susceptible to infection since pyelonephritic changes were lacking in those cases in which dysplasia was most severe.
An investigation of central cholinoceptors in the mouse has been made by injecting cholinomimetic drugs into the cerebral ventricles and seeing how their effects were modified by prior administration of atropine-like substances and other drugs.2. Carbachol or oxotremorine injected in small doses intracerebroventricularly into conscious mice caused hypothermia, gross tremor and a variety of parasympathomimetic effects including lachrymation and salivation. Acetylcholine injected in this way was active only in much larger doses.3. Methacholine and pilocarpine also caused a variety of parasympathomimetic effects after intracerebroventricular injection but virtually no hypothermia or tremor.4. Nicotine injected intracerebroventricularly caused mild hypothermia, fine tremor but no parasympathomimetic effects.5. Atropine-like drugs, tricyclic antidepressants and amphetamine antagonized the hypothermia induced by intracerebroventricular carbachol or oxotremorine.6. The sites of action of the atropine-like drugs are in the brain; those of the tricyclic antidepressants and amphetamine are in the periphery probably on heat generating beta-adrenoceptor mechanisms.7. It is concluded that the atropine sensitive cholinoceptors in the brain vary in their sensitivities to cholinomimetic drugs, other than acetylcholine, and may exist in isoreceptor forms.8. Peripheral atropine sensitive cholinoceptors may also exist in isoreceptor forms.
The paper deals with 20 benign tumours of the nipple and areola. The most common lesion was adenoma or florid papillomatosis (11 cases). On the basis of clinical and histological differences, the cases were divided into two groups.Group I.-Tumours showing an adenomatous pattern (5 cases) appropriately termed adenoma of the nipple. Chief clinical features were younger age, long duration and enlargement of the nipple as a predominant symptom. Histological characteristics were elongated tubules separated by a varying amount of fibrous stroma and squamous metaplasia in some of the cases.Group II.-Tumours showing a papillomatous pattern (6 cases) appropriately designated as florid papillomatosis. Clinically, the patients were older. Chief complaint was bleeding from the nipple of a few months' duration. Histologically, dilated lactiferous ducts were seen filled with papillary, cribriform and solid growth of cells. Other features such as apocrine metaplasia, foam cells and central necrosis were observed.The interpretation of this grouping is discussed.A case of adenoma of an accessory nipple is reported.Other benign tumours observed were five papillomas, one leiomyoma, one haemangioma, one fibroma and one lipoma.
Fifty-two (6.8%) of 779 patients admitted to a coronary monitoring unit with acute myocardial infarction developed a pericardial friction rub. A diagnosis of postmyocardial infarction syndrome was made in three of these.The course of the 52 patients with pericarditis was compared with that of a consecutive series of 100 patients without pericarditis. As a group those with pericarditis manifested a longer period of pyrexia, a greater rise in serum enzymes, and a higher incidence of major arrhythmias and of radiological pulmonary oedema. The Peel prognostic index, however, did not differ significantly in the two groups. The hospital mortality of the pericarditis group was not significantly different from that of the 727 non-pericarditis patients. No specially adverse features were found in a follow-up of the pericarditis group.Though the presence of a pericardial rub in the first few days after a myocardial infarction may be a sign of extensive myocardial damage and is associated with a relatively high incidence of ventricular fibrillation, it does not appear to influence the hospital mortality of patients treated in a monitoring unit.
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (defibrination syndrome, consumption coagulopathy) is a syndrome which may complicate a number of pathologic states. If clotting factors and platelets are "consumed" more rapidly than the patient can produce them, they may fall to levels which are not adequate for hemostasis. Thus, thrombosis with resulting necrosis and hemorrhage may occur simultaneously in the same patient. Local fibrinolysis (secondary fibrinolysis) may remove or partially remove intravascular thrombi, thus protecting against local tissue necrosis. Diagnosis of the fulminating syndrome is usually simple and depends upon a few relatively easy tests. If the syndrome is low grade, diagnosis is very difficult and may be impossible without sophisticated techniques. Differential diagnosis from coagulation defects secondary to liver disease is extremely difficult. Treatment in the fulminating case before intravascular thrombi can cause irreversible tissue damage is urgent. Treatment depends upon therapy of the underlying disease plus adequate heparinization. It may be necessary to administer platelets and blood fractions after heparinization. Corticosteroids are not contraindicated, particularly when the patient is heparinized. Epsilon-amino-caproic acid (EACA, Amicar) is contraindicated. This drug inhibits local fibrinolysis, which is protective to the patient.
The electroencephalogram represents an electrical summary of the organizational patterns and the total physical-chemical processes taking place in the brain at the time of the recording. Itis affected by artifacts secondary to head movements, muscle potentials, and eye movements, physiological factors, such as state of consciousness, hyperventilation, and maturity of the brain, metabolic factors such as temperature, thyroid function, electrolyte changes, and numerous other metabolic factors, and drugs. Brain dysfunction also causes changes in the electroencephalogram. The electroencephalogram is useful in some, but not all, types of brain dysfunction. In general, the electroencephalogram is most likely to be abnormal if the underlying disease is acute or ongoing, or if the disease is associated with seizures. Focal lesions may appear when none is suspected clinically. The electroencephalogram can be an invaluable aid in dealing with epilepsy. Petit mal epilepsy cannot be diagnosed without it, and infantile spasms are diagnosed with considerably greater certainty if the electroencephalogram shows hypsarrhythmia. Patients with seizures which appear to be generalized may have an electroencephalogram with focal abnormalities; this may be the only clue that a focal lesion exists. Psychomotor epilepsy is sometimes difficult to differentiate from sociopathic behavior, and the electroencephalogram can be helpful. The electroencephalogram is less useful in chronic static conditions such as mental retardation, minimal cerebral dysfunction, or behavior disorders, unless there is associated epilepsy or ongoing brain pathology. More recently, the electroencephalogram has been used to estimate gestational age with reasonable accuracy. With the aid of a computer, responses to auditory and visual stimuli have been recorded on the electroencephalogram. These techniques, although not in general use at the present time, hold considerable promise for the future. They mark the beginnings of a new dimension in using the electroencephalogram as a tool in helping the clinician evaluate and understand brain development, and in helping him recognize early signs of disease in the developing brain.
The thyroid uptake at 20 minutes of intravenously administered Technetium-99(m) ((99m)Tc) was measured in 117 patients with a standard scintillation counter. Patients were divided into three groups on the basis of clinical assessment, four-hour (131)I uptake, triiodothyronine (T-3) resin uptake, and protein-bound iodine measurements.In 31 patients with no evidence of thyroid disease the mean (99m) Tc uptake was 1.8% +/-S.D. 1.1%. In 32 patients with thyroid enlargement who were euthyroid the mean uptake was 2.5% +/-S.D. 2.2%. In 54 thyrotoxic patients the mean uptake was 17.7% with a range of 4.1 to 44%, all cases having an uptake above the upper limit of normal (4.0%). These results agree closely with reported uptake studies using scanning techniques. In seven patients the extrathyroidal neck activity was measured by using a scanner, and the mean was 6.3% of the extrathyroidal total body radioactivity comparing favourably with an assumed 6% used in our calculations.We have shown that the measurement of the thyroid uptake of (99m)Tc with a scintillation counter is of value, and that it is not necessary to use scanning techniques in the diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis. Advantages of (99m) Tc are minimal radiation, reduction in patient and laboratory time, and low cost.
Hypocalcemia and resistance to exogenous parathyroid hormone have been reported in several clinical states associated with magnesium deficiency. On the basis of such observations, it has been suggested that magnesium depletion per se may result in impaired responsiveness of the adenyl cyclase-adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (3',5'-AMP) system. To test this hypothesis, 4 wk old male parathyroidectomized rats were maintained on normal or magnesium-deficient diets for 4 wk and their responses to parathyroid hormone compared. Serum magnesium and calcium fell progressively in the magnesium-deficient group. Despite clinical and biochemical evidence of severe magnesium deficiency in these animals, renal production and excretion of 3',5'-AMP in response to parathyroid hormone was normal both in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, administration of either dibutyryl 3',5'-AMP or parathyroid extract to fasting magnesium-depleted rats produced a normal increase in serum calcium. Parathyroid hormone infusion studies demonstrated normal renal and skeletal responsiveness as measured by urinary excretion of calcium, magnesium, phosphate, and hydroxyproline. These data show that the effect of parathyroid hormone on 3',5'-AMP formation and excretion, the responsiveness of skeletal tissue to 3',5'-AMP, and the renal and skeletal system responses to parathyroid hormone are not altered by pure magnesium deficiency in the parathyroidectomized rat.
The activities of gluconeogenic and glycolytic enzymes and the concentrations of citrate, ammonia, amino acids, glycogen, glucose 6-phosphate, acetyl-CoA, lactate and pyruvate were measured in kidney cortex of normal, diabetic, cortisone-treated and growth hormone-treated rats. In kidney cortex of diabetic, cortisone-treated and growth hormone-treated rats the activities of glucose 6-phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.9), fructose 1,6-diphosphatase (EC 3.1.3.11) and phosphopyruvate carboxylase (EC 4.1.1.32) were increased. The activities of glutamate dehydrogenase (EC 1.4.1.3), alanine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.2), aspartate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.10) and pyruvate carboxylase (EC 6.4.1.1) were increased in diabetic and cortisone-treated rats. In growth hormone-treated rats the activity of aspartate aminotransferase was depressed but those of the other three enzymes were unchanged. The activity of hexokinase (EC 2.7.1.1) was not altered in any of these conditions. Phosphofructokinase (EC 2.7.1.11) activity was depressed only in growth hormone-treated rats. Pyruvate kinase (EC 2.7.1.40) activity was depressed in cortisone-treated and growth hormone-treated rats but unchanged in diabetic rats. Amino acids, acetyl-CoA and glucose 6-phosphate contents were increased in rat kidneys in all these three conditions. Ammonia content was increased in diabetic and cortisone-treated rats but was markedly diminished in growth hormone-treated rats. The [lactate]/[pyruvate] ratio was elevated in diabetic and cortisone-treated rats but unchanged in growth hormone-treated rats. Citrate content was increased in the kidney cortex of diabetic and growth hormone-treated rats but was unchanged in cortisone-treated rats. The activity of ATP citrate lyase (EC 4.1.3.8) was depressed in diabetic and growth hormone-treated rats but was increased in cortisone-treated rats. Glycogen content was moderately elevated in growth hormone-treated rats and markedly elevated in diabetic rats, whereas no change in glycogen content was observed in cortisone-treated rats. Glycogen synthetase (EC 2.4.1.11) activity was unchanged in all these three conditions. Phosphorylase (EC 2.4.1.1) activity was not affected in cortisone-treated rats but was depressed in diabetic and growth hormone-treated rats.
Twenty-four instances of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were recognized in 23 patients at the Stanford University Hospitals between 1962 and The affected persons could be broadly characterized as "compromised" hosts. All but one were receiving immunosuppressive drug therapy for such underlying disease as hematopoietic malignant disease, collagen vascular disorder, and organ transplant rejection. The one patient not receiving immunosuppressant medication had congenital dysgammaglobulinemia and suffered two discrete bouts of pneumocystis pneumonia. Most of the patients were concomitantly infected with other "opportunistic" pathogens. Open lung biopsy remained the most reliable method of antemortem diagnosis of pneumocystis infection during this eight-year period. It resulted in little morbidity. Unfortunately, direct examination of appropriately stained sputum specimens for cysts was almost uniformly nonproductive. The majority of patients received specific antipneumocystis drug treatment (pentamidine isethionate or pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine). "Cure" was achieved when institution of therapy was prompt and duration of therapy approached the empirically recommended two-week course. The fact that pneumocystis pneumonia can be controlled if recognized early is compelling reason to pursue diagnosis of pneumocystosis in an appropriate clinical setting, namely, in patients with impaired host defenses who have pulmonary infection unresponsive to conventional therapy. There is hope that a noninvasive (serological) technique will be developed shortly to simplify identification of this not uncommon cause of diffuse interstitial pneumonitis.
The results of bacteriological and histological examinations of the organs of mice infected in the footpad with human leprosy bacilli by the Shepard method are summarized. The periods of observation ranged from a few days to 2 years. The disease developed in mice as a chronic infection with a lengthy "incubation" period of 3-4 months or more without symptoms. Usually about 2 years after inoculation, or in some cases after a shorter interval, the disease became generalized. Different types of tissue reaction occurred: simple inflammatory infiltration, tuberculoid granuloma, and leproma-like granuloma, similar to the clinical types of leprosy in man. When the infection became general, cells resembling lepra cells formed in the internal organs and at the site of infection. These cells contained massive intracellular aggregations of mycobacteria and compact globi with lipids and a vacuolized protoplasm, similar in origin and morphology to the lepra cells in human lesions. Changes were found in the neuroreceptor apparatus of the skin of the mice, with groups of leprosy bacilli in the endoneurium, the Schwann cells, and the perineural spaces. The length of the experiments and the histological examination of material from the sacrificed mice at different stages of the infective process revealed biological parallels with human leprosy and threw light on a number of aspects of the pathogenesis of leprosy.
A series of 127 patients presenting at two London hospitals with carcinoma of the vulva during the period 1948-70 is reviewed. Patients with intraepithelial carcinoma or rodent ulcer are excluded, but the series includes two cases of malignant melanoma, one of adenocarcinoma of Bartholin's gland, and two of basal cell carcinoma. In the remainder the pathological diagnosis was squamous cell carcinoma.Leucoplakia was present in only 30 cases (24%) and it is therefore concluded that this condition is probably not so dangerous as a precursor of cancer as has been stated in the past, though an association with cancer of the vulva is undeniable.In only three cases was no form of treatment practicable. Of the remaining 124, two were treated by radiotherapy, 37 by simple vulvectomy, 12 by vulvectomy followed by separate inguinal lymphadenectomy, and 73 by radical vulvectomy combined with bilateral lymphadenectomy en bloc, pelvic lymphadenectomy being included whenever the superficial lymph nodes appeared to be involved or when Cloquet's node was shown by frozen-section examination to be invaded. Excellent results, with an absolute five-year survival rate of 66%, were obtained with this last procedure, especially when primary skin cover was provided by the delayed technique (five-year survival 73%). The results of simple vulvectomy were also surprisingly good, with an absolute five-year survival rate of 65%, and this operation may be a wise choice for the very old or infirm patient.
Inhibition of thyrotropin (TSH) release by chronic treatment with small quantities of triiodothyronine (T(3)) and thyroxine (T(4)) was evaluated by determining the serum TSH response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in normal subjects and hypothyroid patients. Response to TRH was determined before treatment and after each dosage of a synthetic combination of T(3) + T(4) had been given for 3-4 wk. Treatment of eight normal subjects with 15 mug T(3) + 60 mug T(4) reduced the maximum increase in serum TSH above baseline (maximum DeltaTSH) by 76% in response to 400 mug TRH and by 87% in response to 25 mug TRH. The average serum T(3) level during a 24 hr period in normal subjects who had been taking 15 mug T(3) + 60 mug T(4) for 3-4 wk was 129+/-10 ng/100 ml (mean +/-SEM), well within the normal range, 70-150 ng/100 ml, although higher than the pretreatment level, 98+/-7 ng/100 ml. The average serum T(4) level was unchanged from the pretreatment level. Treatment of the same subjects with 30 mug T(3) + 120 mug T(4) reduced the maximum DeltaTSH further.Six patients with primary hypothyroidism were treated, sequentially, with 15 + 60, 22.5 + 90, and 30 mug T(3) + 120 mug T(4). For each patient there was one increase in dosage of 7.5 mug T(3) + 30 mug T(4) which abruptly converted a maximum DeltaTSH that was greater than, or at the upper limit of, normal to one that was subnormal. Concurrent with these six abrupt changes in TSH response, the mean serum T(3) level increased only from 105+/-5 to 129+/-9 ng/100 ml, and the mean serum T(4) level increased only from 4.9+/-0.8 to 6.3+/-0.5 mug/100 ml. These data demonstrate the extreme sensitivity of TRH-induced TSH release to inhibition by the chronic administration of quantities of T(3) + T(4) which do not raise serum T(3) and T(4) levels above the normal ranges.
Rifampin is a newer semi-synthetic derivative of rifamycin. Its advantages over other derivatives are good oral absorption, high blood levels, and slower excretion rate. Rifampin has been studied in 68 patients and results can be summarized as follows:* There has been no evidence of significant toxicity.* In a randomized study of active tuberculosis patients who had not received prior chemotherapy, isoniazid-rifampin and isoniazid-aminosalicylic acid regiments were equally effective.* In retreatment patients with active, positive tuberculosis, the regimen of isoniazid, rifampin, and ethambutol proved to be very effective, especially when the two latter drugs had not been used previously.* In patients with pulmonary infections caused by atypical acid-fast bacilli, results varied with the organism isolated and the extent of disease. Rifampin is a potent, relatively non-toxic drug especially useful in the retreatment of pulmonary tuberculosis in patients who have never received this drug previously. There is little justification for its use in initial therapy except in rare cases.
Hepatic secretions of biliary lipids were estimated in 43 patients with and without cholesterol gallstones. Studies were carried out by a marker dilution technique employing duodenal intubation with a three-lumen tube. Hourly secretion rates of cholesterol, bile acids, and phospholipids were determined during constant infusion with liquid formula. In 17 American Indian women with gallstones, hourly outputs of biliary bile acids were significantly less than those in 7 Indian men and 12 Caucasian women without gallstones. These findings suggest that a decreased hepatic secretion of bile acids contributes significantly to the production of a lithogenic bile in Indian women. However, in Indian women with gallstones, secretion of biliary cholesterol was also significantly increased, as compared with Caucasian women without stones. Therefore, lithogenic bile in Indian women was, in most cases, due to a combined decrease in bile acid output and increase in cholesterol secretion. In an attempt to determine the mechanisms for these abnormalities, cholesterol balance studies were done in Indian women with gallstones and normal Indian men. Balance data were compared with results reported previously in non-Indian patients studied by the same techniques, and in general, Indian women showed a slight increase in fecal excretion of bile acids. Since bile acids in the enterohepatic circulation were relatively depleted in Indian women, these patients had a reduced fractional reabsorption. However, previous studies have shown that Caucasians can rapidly replenish bile acid pools in the presence of much greater intestinal losses, and it is suggested that among Indian women with gallstones, reduced secretion rates of bile acids are primarily the result of defective homeostatic regulation of bile acid synthesis. In Indian women with gallstones, at least two factors may have contributed to an increased availability of cholesterol in the liver for secretion into bile. First, cholesterol was inadequately converted into bile acids, and secondly, an increased amount of cholesterol was synthesized, as shown by the balance technique. This enhanced production of cholesterol can partially be explained by obesity, but other factors may also play a role.
In confirmation of previous work, administration of d(+)-galactosamine (0.5-0.75g/kg body wt.) to rats caused a hepatitis with histological evidence of liver damage and a 9-fold rise in aspartate aminotransferase activity in serum. There was a significant elevation of blood lactate and pyruvate concentrations in 24h-starved rats treated with galactosamine but no change in the [lactate]/[pyruvate] ratio. 3-Hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate concentrations in blood were decreased. The changes in the concentrations of lactate, pyruvate and ketone bodies in the freeze-clamped liver were parallel to those observed in the blood. In the livers of 24h-starved galactosamine-treated rats there were large increases in the concentrations of alanine (3-fold), citrate (5-fold), 2-oxoglutarate (4-fold), with smaller increases in malate, glutamate and aspartate. There was a 4-fold rise in the value of the mass-action ratio of the alanine aminotransferase system in the livers of galactosamine-treated rats when compared to controls. There was a significant decrease in the activities of aspartate and alanine aminotransferases in the cytoplasm and the soluble fraction of sonicated homogenates of the livers of rats treated with galactosamine. The activity of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase was decreased by 75% of the control value. Glucose synthesis from lactate in perfused livers from galactosamine-treated rats was inhibited 39% when compared with controls. The results indicate that the conversion of lactate into glucose is decreased in the livers of galactosamine-treated rats and that this decrease may be due to the loss of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase from damaged hepatocytes.
No species differences between Schistosoma haematobium and Schistosoma mansoni were detected when the I50 of metrifonate for the acetylcholinesterases (AChE) and the cholinesterases (ChE) of these two trematodes were determined in isolated enzyme preparations or following exposure of the intact worms to this drug in vitro.2. S. haematobium appeared to be more affected by AChE inhibition because, after administration of metrifonate to hamsters, a hepatic shift of the parasites was observed with a dose of metrifonate (150 mg (0.6 mmol) per kg) which produced no shift of S. mansoni, although AChE inhibition was comparable in both species.3. Administration of a possible metabolite of metrifonate, dichlorvos, to hamsters resulted in a greater inhibition of AChE and ChE activities of S. haematobium than those of S. mansoni. Furthermore, when schistosomes were incubated with dichlorvos, inhibition of AChE activity of female S. haematobium was significantly greater (P<0.005) than that of both sexes of S. mansoni and of male S. haematobium.4. The discrepancy between the lack of a significant chemotherapeutic effect of metrifonate in hamsters infected with S. haematobium and the clinical results obtained with this organophosphorus compound in human schistosomiasis haematobium is discussed, and the need to conduct similar studies in primates is pointed out.
Cephamycin A was found to be more active in vivo than cephamycin B. In comparison with cephamycin C, cephamycin A was more active against gram-positive organisms but less active against gram-negative organisms. Given subcutaneously, cephamycin C had good in vivo gram-negative activity, comparing favorably with cephalothin and cephaloridine against cephalosporin-susceptible organisms. In general, against the gram-negative organisms, it was more active than cephalothin or cephalosporin C and about as active as cephaloridine. In addition, cephamycin C protected mice against beta-lactamase-producing Proteus cultures, including clinically isolated strains. The compound is remarkably nontoxic. Cephamycin C was detected in the serum and recovered from the urine of treated mice to about the same extent as cephaloridine. Like cephaloridine and cephalosporin C, cephamycin C must be excreted mainly by glomerular filtration, because the use of probenecid did not enhance the therapeutic effectiveness nor concentrations of these agents in the sera of treated mice.
Intravenous inoculation of a group A hemolytic streptococcus caused lethal infections in all of eight untreated monkeys. Intramuscular injections of clindamycin-2-phosphate in a daily dose of 25 mg/kg given in equal morning and afternoon doses for 10 days resulted in survival of all of eight monkeys. Similar results were observed with the same dose schedule of clindamycin hydrochloride given intragastrically; no fatalities occurred among eight monkeys. In monkeys receiving erythromycin stearate intragastrically or methicillin intramuscularly, three of eight and four of eight monkeys, respectively, died. Duration of both illness and positive blood cultures was greater in the erythromycin- and methicillin-treated survivors than in the clindamycin-treated monkeys. The differences in results between clindamycin and erythromycin could not be correlated with serum antibacterial activity levels, which were similar, or with minimal inhibitory concentrations, which were 0.02 mug/ml with both antibiotics. With methicillin, however, the minimal inhibitory concentration was 0.16 mug/ml and serum antibacterial activity varied from titers of less than 1:2 to 1:8. As in previous studies of staphylococcal infections in monkeys with the same antibiotics, in vitro susceptibility data and serum antibacterial activity did not completely correlate with in vivo results.
The apexcardiogram (acg), when recorded serially in patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami), preinfarction angina (pia) and stable ischemic heart disease (ihd), appeared to reflect the abnormal patterns of contraction of the left ventricle in these conditions. Thus, paradoxical bulging (dyskinesis) of the systolic wave or increased "a" wave amplitude with gradual recovery over several weeks was found in all 60 patients with documented ami and in 18 of 20 patients with pia. Electrocardiogram changes were noted, however, in only eight of the pia patients. Changes in the acg frequently antedated ischemia in the ecg. Paradoxical bulging of the systolic wave of the acg was additionally noted in patients during the pain of angina pectoris but this promptly disappeared after the administration of nitroglycerine. Patients with classic angina often had normal resting ecg's but abnormal resting acg's. In contrast to the relatively transient abnormalities noted above, the acg remained unchanged in most patients with stable ihd during follow-up of three months to two years. Patients undergoing coronary bypass operations, however, showed immediate improvement in the acg in the postoperative period. These results suggest the acg reflects the contractile pattern of the left ventricle, and may be an indirectly recorded ventriculogram. Its enhanced sensitivity and the earlier development of changes in comparison to the ecg make this a valuable tool in the study of patients with heart disease.
This study was designed to answer the question whether human lymphocytes and spleen cells were capable of de novo purine biosynthesis. Experiments were carried out in cell-free extracts prepared from human spleen, and from a cell line established from Burkitt lymphoma. Burkitt lymphoma cells and human spleen cells could synthesize the first and second intermediates of the purine biosynthetic pathway. Cell-free extracts of all cell lines studied contained the enzyme systems which catalyze the synthesis of phosphoribosyl-1-amine, the first intermediate unique to the purine biosynthetic pathway and of phosphoribosyl glycinamide, the second intermediate of this pathway. Phosphoribosyl-1-amine could be synthesized in cell-free extracts from alpha-5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) and glutamine, from PRPP and ammonia, and by an alternative pathway, directly from ribose-5-phosphate and ammonia. These findings suggest that extrahepatic tissues may be an important source for the de novo synthesis of purine ribonucleotide in man. They also indicate that ammonia may play an important role in purine biosynthesis. The alternative pathway for the synthesis of phosphoribosyl-1-amine from ribose-5-phosphate and ammonia was found to be subject to inhibition by the end products of the purine synthetic pathway, particularly by adenylic acid and to a lesser degree by guanylic acid. The alternative pathway for phosphoribosyl-1-amine synthesis from ribose-5-phosphate and ammonia may contribute significantly towards the regulation of the rate of de novo purine biosynthesis in the normal state, in metabolic disorders in which purines are excessively produced and in myeloproliferative diseases.
Chamberlain's, McGregor's and Bull's angle measurements for basilar impression of the skull were made on 22 adult patients with idiopathic steatorrhoea (probable gluten enteropathy), 24 patients who had had previous gastric surgery, and 48 control subjects. For each of the three measurements a value greater than the mean plus two standard deviations was taken as the upper limit of normal. In seven patients with adult steatorrhoea all three measurements were abnormal suggesting basilar impression, while basilar impression was probable in only one patient who had gastric surgery. The trend towards abnormal measurements was significant in the steatorrhoea patients but not in those who had gastric surgery. Basilar impression also was present in patients who did not have rickets or present evidence of osteomalacia. It was argued that this study could support a hypothesis that some cases of primary basilar impression of the skull are secondary to bone softening associated with malabsorption in early life, the evidence of which may have disappeared in adult life.
The occurrence of abnormal cells in the peripheral blood of patients with Hodgkin's disease has been described in the literature. In the present investigation several varieties of cells were found, two of which are believed to be typical of the disease. The significance of these cells in the peripheral blood is not yet clear, but there seems to be a correlation between the presence of these characteristic cells in the blood and involvement of the spleen by the disease as determined by microscopical examination. In 11 patients both abnormalities proved to be absent; 13 out of 14 other patients showed both the abnormal cells in the blood and Hodgkin lesions in the spleen.If circulating abnormal cells are indeed an indication of the presence of Hodgkin's disease in the spleen, involvement of this organ is likely to be due to or to give rise to haematogenous dissemination. The other possibility remains that both the occurrence of abnormal cells in the peripheral blood and splenic involvement are due to a multicentric origin of the disease. It seems most unlikely that the splenic lesions are consistent with localized disease still restricted to the lymphoid system. These findings challenge the validity of the present widely used so-called Rye classification of clinical stages in Hodgkin's disease.
Thirteen cases of patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome were reviewed. In two cases the diagnosis was made by incidental biopsy of small liver nodules at operation for peptic ulcer disease. Seven patients had gastric secretory tests which showed a basal acid output to maximum acid output ratio of more than 65 percent. Five patients had bao:mao ratios less than 50 percent.A 30-month interval between incidental discovery of tumor and clinically evident disease was observed in two patients. Recurrence of symptoms after excision of tumor was noted after a similar interval in another case. Serum gastrin levels, before total gastrectomy, were elevated in all cases. The lowest preoperative level in this series of patients was 550 picograms per ml (normal 100 to 150 picograms). They were diagnostic in two patients with normal gastric secretory studies. The levels fell to normal following total gastrectomy in six patients. Two patients still had elevated levels five years and 14 years after total gastrectomy. One was discovered to have a parathyroid adenoma with hypercalcemia. Total gastrectomy was curative in all the patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; lesser operations were not.
Intestinal lesions of 212 cases presenting with symptoms of intestinal obstruction were studied. Of these, 159 cases were diagnosed as tuberculosis and 10 as Crohn's disease. Forty-three cases could not be classified into any of these entities and are excluded from this account. The amount of chemotherapeutic drugs received by each patient preoperatively was recorded. Cases proved as tuberculosis at the first operation were put on antituberculosis chemotherapy. Thirteen of these cases were operated on a second time, and tissue reactions under the influence of chemotherapy were studied. Fresh diseased tissue was studied for acid-fast organisms by culture and animal inoculation.Morphological features of the tuberculosis group are described in detail. Although the cases were broadly classified into the ulcerative and ulcerohypertrophic varieties, a distinction was not always sharp and the two types of lesions were at times found to coexist. The macroscopic features presented a very wide range, and at times distinction from Crohn's disease, especially in the ulcerohypertrophic variety, was difficult. Microscopically, however, they could be distinguished without much difficulty. Caseation, although a characteristic feature of tuberculous granulomas may, albeit rarely, be absent. Granulomas which are characteristically confluent may be present only in the mesenteric lymph nodes. Acid-fast organisms are not grown consistently from diseased tissues; where grown, they are of human type. Reparative changes during chemotherapy are described in detail; these follow a non-specific pattern. In the group of Crohn's disease, transmural cracks and fissures were consistently observed in all cases. Distinguishing features between the two diseases are discussed in detail.
Liver function and serum concentrations of rifampicin, a highly cholephilic antibiotic, have been studied after ingestion of a single dose of 600 mg of rifampicin in 12 patients, six of them having a normal liver and six a cirrhotic, and during treatment with 600 mg of rifampicin per day for 17 days in eight patients, four of them having a normal liver and four a cirrhotic. Rifampicin produced competition for the elimination of bilirubin and bromsulphalein by the liver. This competition, which seemed to involve mainly the uptake by the liver cell, was always rapidly reversible when treatment was discontinued. It makes it impossible, however, to interpret a bromsulphalein test during treatment with rifampicin. In the eight patients treated for 17 days, apart from the competition already mentioned, no clinical, biological, or morphological abnormalities of the liver were ascertained. But in this limited number of patients it is not possible to exclude the fact that rifampicin could provoke jaundice by idiosyncrasy in a small percentage of cases. The serum concentrations of rifampicin were higher in cirrhotic patients than in patients with normal livers, especially after one or two weeks of treatment. It is suggested that efficient blood concentrations of rifampicin would be achieved with small doses in case of previous hepatocellular insufficiency.
The effect of various glycosidases on the growth of solid hypotetraploid Ehrlich ascites tumour was investigated. The purified bacterial chondroitinase-ABC significantly inhibited the growth of tumour; chondroitinase-AC inhibited the tumour to some extent but chondro-4-sulphatase, chondro-6-sulphatase, streptomyces hyaluronidase, and β-glucuronidase had no inhibitory effect. Heat-treated chondroitinase-ABC had no inhibitory effect on the tumour growth. The growth of tumour cells which were injected subcutaneously after in vitro incubation with chondroitinase-ABC or -AC solution was decreased when compared with that of sham-treated cells.The injection of 1 ml of chondroitin sulphate A and chondroitin sulphate C solution prior to tumour inoculation into the same site promoted the tumour growth, while growth-stimulating effect of chondroitin sulphate B was ambiguous. The chondroitin sulphate appears to serve as a growth supporter which protects the surface of tumour cells and promotes the physiological surface function of the cells.
Ileal disease or resection causes bile salt malabsorption and a reduction in the bile salt content of bile. Since cholesterol solubility requires adequate bile salt concentrations, depletion of the bile salt content of bile might, therefore, jeopardize cholesterol solubility and predispose to cholesterol gallstone formation. To study this, we examined biliary lipid composition in 10 patients with ileal dysfunction and in 25 healthy controls. Biliary lipid composition, as analysed in cholecystokinin-stimulated, bile-rich duodenal fluid, was shown to be representative of gallbladder bile and reproducible on repeat duodenal intubation. Nine of the 10 patients with ileal dysfunction had an abnormal, supersaturated bile in which the limits of cholesterol solubility were exceeded, and while nine of 25 control subjects also had an unstable bile, the mean bile composition in the ileal dysfunction group was significantly different from the control population. These studies provide a physicochemical explanation for the clinical observation that patients with ileal dysfunction have an increased incidence of gallstones.
A case of primary rhabdomyosarcoma in the right cerebral hemisphere of a 45 year old woman is reported. This was treated by surgical excision but death occurred 10 months after the first symptom. The histogenesis of such a tumour is discussed. The clinical and pathological features of 15 previously reported similar tumours of the CNS are compared. Most of these occurred in the cerebellum in children where they have been regarded as medullomyoblastomas (a variant of medulloblastoma), teratomas, or rhabdomyosarcomas. Few have been recorded in adults and only one previously in the cerebrum. All of these tumours tend to have a short clinical course, although survival time seems to be significantly improved by surgical excision followed by radiotherapy. The remarkable morphological similarities between the tumours are discussed. Argyrophilic fibrils were demonstrated in the present case and in an unrelated rhabdomyosarcoma of the jaw. This observation may invalidate the main criterion used for separating medullomyoblastomas and teratomas from rhabdomyosarcomas in this group of tumours. It is concluded that at present all these tumours should be regarded as rhabdomyosarcomas.
The myenteric plexus of the colon was studied ultrastructurally in a colony of an Ls Ls strain of mice manifesting a piebald coat color mutation associated with a high incidence of genetically determined aganglionic megacolon. Ultrastructural studies were histochemically supplemented by the Maillet technic and stains for acetylcholinesterase and catecholamines. The development of megacolon did not appear to require total aganglionosis, since ostensibly aganglionic areas contained rare ganglion cells. In the distal narrowed segment, both cholinergic and adrenergic fibers in the muscularis, submucosa and mucosa were somewhat reduced. In the mouse, the dilated portion showed an abrupt increase in adrenergic fibers. These findings are related to the pathophysiology of the disorder. The increasing degenerative changes seen in myenteric plexus structures from the fetus to adult suggest that aganglionic megacolon may be an abiotrophy, wherein the congenitally deficient myenteric plexus may be unusually predisposed to postnatal injury and degeneration.
The effects of the intravenous injection of Kö 1173, a new anticonvulsant drug, phenytoin and procainamide were studied on three types of cardiac arrhythmia in dogs.2. Ventricular ectopic beats produced by intravenous injection of adrenaline in anaesthetized dogs respired with halothane were abolished by Kö 1173, 0.6 +/- 0.1 mg/kg, phenytoin, 1.1 +/- 0.3 mg/kg and procainamide, 4.1 +/- 1.8 mg/kg.3. Ventricular tachycardia was produced in anaesthetized dogs by the intravenous injection of ouabain and the three drugs infused intravenously at 0.2 (mg/kg)/min until sinus rhythm returned. Kö 1173 was effective in 8 out of 9 dogs after a mean dose of 1.3 +/- 0.3 mg/kg; phenytoin in all 3 dogs after 2.7 +/- 0.6 mg/kg and procainamide in the 3 dogs tested after 16.6 +/- 1.3 mg/kg.4. The intravenous injection of Kö 1173, 8.0 mg/kg, greatly reduced the number of ventricular ectopic beats occurring in conscious dogs 18-44 h after ligation of the anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery, with a resultant increase in the number of sinus beats. Phenytoin, 8.0 mg/kg, had a similar effect but procainamide was much less effective.5. These results indicate that Kö 1173 is effective in abolishing experimental cardiac arrhythmias and suggest that its effects should be studied in patients.
A study has been made of 33 cases of granulomatous hepatitis. Of these, 12 were eventually established as cases of sarcoidosis, nine as cases of tuberculosis, and four as examples of primary biliary cirrhosis. No clinical diagnosis was ever reached in six cases. Analysis of the histological features of these cases shows that the presence of caseation or of tubercle bacilli will only allow for the diagnosis of approximately 50% of cases of tuberculosis. Histological features which are suggestive of tuberculosis are a paucity of granulomata, a scantiness of giant cells, a relatively mild surrounding chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate, and an absence of reticulin. The granulomata are more likely to be due to sarcoidosis if they are numerous, contain many giant cells, are confined to the portal areas, and show a well marked surrounding non-specific chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate. Histological features of cases in which no clinical diagnosis was reached suggest that they are more likely to be due to sarcoidosis than to tuberculosis.
Isoproterenol (ISO), a drug which causes an increased strength of myocardial contraction when administered to animals in mug/kg doses, causes myocardial necrosis when given mg/kg doses. Previous studies suggested that necrosis might be due to flooding of the heart muscle cells by calcium. To determine if this is true, and to distinguish between flooding due to release of Ca from sequestered intramyocardial compartments and increased influx from the blood, we have measured total myocardial calcium ([Ca](m)) after ISO administration. The concentration of myocardial calcium, measured by atomic absorption spectroscopy after dry ashing, increased within 10 minutes of the intraperitoneal injection of ISO in rats. After 10 minutes the [Ca](m) remained constant at its new level for at least 50 minutes if the dose of ISO was 10(2) mug/kg or less but continued to rise at a slower rate than noted during the first 10 minutes if the ISO dose was 10(3) mug/kg or more. As measured 1 hour after ISO administration, the increase in [Ca](m), was proportional to the dose, up to 10(2) mug/kg. At higher doses there was no further increase until the dose exceeded 2 x 10(3) mug ISO/kg. Since the amount of necrosis is proportional to dose from about 10(2) to 10(5) mug/kg, while the changes in [Ca](m) are not proportional to dose over this entire range, it is concluded that ISO-induced myocardial necrosis is not mediated exclusively by flooding of heart muscle with plasma-derived calcium, although this is undoubtedly an important factor. This conclusion was further supported by experiments showing that propranolol, at doses which completely suppressed the increase in [Ca](m) due to ISO, did not completely prevent necrosis.
This study describes the clinical, roentgenologic, and histopathologic studies of pulmonary toxicity induced by treatment with bleomycin. In 168 patients with evaluable cases who were treated with different dose schedules of bleomycin, the overall incidence of pulmonary toxicity was 39.8%. The mean total dose producing pulmonary damage was about 100-150 mg/m2. In 31 patients (46%), pulmonary changes were detected only after systematic auscultation of the lungs (fine crepitant rales at one or both bases). In 36 patients (54%), roentgenograms showed reticular or reticular micronodular lesions located mostly at the lower lung zones and at the costophrenic angle 1-2 weeks after the crepitations were noted. In seven patients postmortem examination revealed hyperplasia and endoalveolar migration of type II pneumocytes and macrophages, fibrinous edema, hyaline membranes, and newly formed reticular and collagen fibers within the alveolar septa. The radiologic and histopathologic findings were consistent with the diagnosis of interstitial pneumonia. These pulmonary reactions represent a delayed dose-dependent bleomycin effect and are probably due to the preferential distribution of the drug in the lung tissue.
The marrow cells of a patient with pure red cell aplasia markedly increased their rate of heme synthesis when they were freed from the host environment and were incubated in vitro. When the red cell aplasia was treated with cyclophosphamide and prednisone, marrow cell incorporation of (59)Fe into heme in vitro increased several weeks before a reticulocytosis was apparent, and was the earliest effect noted. The plasma gammaG-globulins of this patient inhibited heme synthesis by normal marrow cells or the patient's own marrow cells obtained after remission of the disease. Since the inhibition of heme synthesis could be the result of damage to erythroblasts, the patient's posttreatment marrow cells or normal marrow cells were labeled with (59)Fe and were then incubated with the patient's pretreatment, treatment, and posttreatment gammaG-globulins as well as normal gammaG-globulins. At the end of this incubation the supernatant and cells were separated and counted. Heme was extracted and also was counted. Treatment of the cells with the patient's pretreatment gammaG-globulins resulted in a release of 40% of the radioactive heme from the cells. This represented the loss of radioactive hemoglobin and was an index of erythroblast cytotoxicity. A progressive disappearance of the cytotoxic factor in the gammaG-globulins occurred in the 3 wk period preceding the onset of reticulocytes in the patient's blood. Posttreatment and normal gammaG-globulins did not produce this effect and increased injury of red cells and lymphocytes was not produced by the patient's pretreatment gammaG-globulins. These studies demonstrate a method for measuring erythroblast cytoxicity and show that red cell aplasia is associated with gammaG-globulins that specifically damage erythroblasts. Whether interference with new erythroblast development also occurs and contributes to the inhibition of heme synthesis has not yet been ascertained.
Seventy-nine patients with hypothyroidism and autoimmune thyroid disease were studied, and allotted to one of four categories on the basis of clinical and biochemical features. Firstly, patients with overt hypothyroidism had obvious clinical features of hypothyroidism and abnormal results from routine tests of thyroid function. Secondly, those with mild hypothyroidism, however, had minor and non-specific symptoms, but the routine measurements of circulating thyroid hormone concentration generally lay within the normal range, although they were significantly lower than those seen in subclinical hypothyroidism or in normal subjects. The serum concentration of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) was raised in this group and their symptoms resolve with treatment. Thirdly, patients with subclinical hypothyroidism were asymptomatic, had a raised serum TSH concentration, but all other measurements of thyroid function are indistinguishable from those recorded in people with autoimmune thyroid disease without disturbance of thyroid function and in normal subjects. Lastly, subjects with circulating thyroid antibodies, normal indices of thyroid function, and a normal serum TSH concentration were indistinguishable biochemically from normal subjects.Thus hypothyroidism is a graded phenomenon, the most valuable features for defining the individual grade being the clinical manifestations, the serum TSH concentration, and the presence of circulating antibodies to thyroid tissue.
Extracts of human stomach homogenized in Krebs solution had more PGE(2)-like activity than tissue homogenized in acid/ethanol or in the presence of indomethacin, indicating that the tissue can synthesize PGE(2).2. The distribution and synthesis of PGE(2)-like substance in human stomach was determined by extracting frozen sections cut parallel to the mucosal surface. Peak levels usually occurred at a depth of 0-600 mum in the mucosa.3. Small amounts of a PGE(2)-like substance were present in basal gastric juice, and its concentration was usually even lower in secretion stimulated by pentagastrin or histamine.4. Submaximal acid secretion produced by I.V. infusion of pentagastrin generally fell slightly when indomethacin was administered rectally to inhibit PG synthesis.5. These experiments, together with the findings that orally administered PGE compounds do not inhibit human gastric acid secretion, seem to argue against a possible inhibitory role for PGE(2) in gastric acid secretion in man.6. If this is so, it would follow that gastric bleeding caused by aspirin-like drugs is not due to increased acid secretion. A hypothesis is presented that tissue damage following vasoconstriction and ischaemia, due to inhibition of PG synthesis in blood vessels, contributes to the bleeding.
The influence of serum triiodothyronine (T(3)) and thyroxine (T(4)) concentrations on the release of prolactin in man was studied by determining the prolactin response to synthetic thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in hypothyroid and hyperthyroid patients before and after correction of their serum thyroid hormone abnormalities. The maximum increment in serum prolactin above the basal level (maximum Delta prolactin) was used as the index of response to TRH. In 12 patients with primary hypothyroidism, the maximum Delta prolactin in response to TRH fell from 100.5+/-29.1 ng/ml (mean +/-SEM) before treatment to 36.1+/-6.0 ng/ml (P < 0.01) during the 4th wk of treatment with 30 mug T(3) + 120 mug T(4) daily. The mean serum T(3) level increased from 57+/-8 to 138+/-10 ng/100 ml, and the mean serum T(4) level increased from 3.0+/-0.4 to 7.2+/-0.4 mug/100 ml during this treatment. In eight normal subjects the maximum Deltaprolactin in response to TRH was not significantly different during the 4th wk of treatment with 30 mug T(3) + 120 mug T(4) daily from the response before treatment. In 10 patients with hyperthyroidism, the maximum Deltaprolactin in response to TRH increased from 14.2+/-2.9 ng/ml before treatment to 46.9+/-6.7 ng/ml (P < 0.001) during antithyroid treatment. The mean serum T(3) level fell from 313+/-47 to 90+/-8 ng/100 ml, and the mean serum T(4) level fell from 20.8+/-2.5 to 6.8+/-0.6 mug/100 ml during this treatment. These results show that changes from normal serum levels of T(3) and T(4) are associated with changes in prolactin responses to TRH; subnormal serum levels of T(3) and T(4) increase TRH-induced prolactin release, whereas substantially higher than normal serum levels of T(3) and T(4) inhibit this release.
Bone magnesium pools were studied in vitro in bone specimens obtained from control subjects, from patients with chronic renal failure before and after renal transplantation, and in a patient with chronic hypomagnesemia. 30% of bone magnesium is in a surface limited pool present either within the hydration shell or else on the crystal surface. The larger fraction of bone magnesium was shown not to be associated with bone matrix but rather to be an integral part of the bone crystal. With incineration this pool was mobilized at the same temperature that sudden enlargement of bone crystal size occurred. It is suggested that heating causes surface calcium to displace magnesium from the apatite crystal. Both magnesium pools are increased in patients with chronic renal failure. The major factor determining magnesium concentration in bone would appear to be the serum magnesium level. Following renal transplantation, in association with the fall in serum magnesium, surface magnesium was within the normal range; whereas, residual magnesium was not different from the other urenic bones. Both magnesium pools were significantly reduced in a patient with chronic hypomagnesemia. The in vitro studies would suggest that surface magnesium should rapidly reflect changes in serum magnesium levels, whereas, the deeper magnesium pool is probably deposited at time of bone formation with mobilization being dependent upon the resorptive processes. Since magnesium can influence crystal size and stability it seems possible that excess bone magnesium may play a role in renal osteodystrophy.
The relative roles of triiodothyronine (T(3)) and thyroxine (T(4)) in modulating pituitary responsiveness to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) have been assessed. 10 hyperthyroid patients with elevated serum T(2) and T(4) levels showed no pituitary response to TRH. After 2 wk of propylthiouracil therapy T(4) levels had fallen to normal in only five patients while T(2) levels were normal in all. Pituitary responsiveness to TRH returned in all patients with normal or high T(4) concentrations. Patients with isolated elevations of serum T(3) (T(3) toxicosis) failed to respond to TRH. TRH responsiveness was restored when T(3) levels fell to normal after propylthiouracil therapy. When pituitary responsiveness to TRH was tested 60 min after a single oral dose of 50 mug of T(3), which increased serum T(3) levels to slightly above the normal range, no rise in thyrotropin (TSH) was seen in six subjects. These findings indicate that T(3) elevations alone can rapidly inhibit pituitary responsiveness to TRH.
The contributions of the classical and alternate pathways of complement activation to the biological effects of endotoxin have been examined in the guinea pig, with particular reference to thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and the development of the hypercoagulable state. Injection of endotoxin into normal guinea pigs led to a 95% fall in the level of circulating platelets within 15 min as well as a fall in circulating granulocytes. C4-deficient guinea pigs, known to have a complete block in the activity of the classical complement pathway, but with the alternate pathway intact, sustained no fall in platelets. The development of granulocytopenia proceeded normally. Endotoxin did activate the alternate complement pathway in C4D guinea pigs, as evidenced by the fall in C3-9 titers. With restoration of serum C4 levels, endotoxin-induced thrombocytopenia was observed in C4D animals. Thus, function of the classical complement pathway was an absolute requirement for the development of thrombocytopenia. Experiments performed in cobra venom factor (CVF)-treated normal guinea pigs, with normal levels of C1, C4, and C2, but with less than 1% of serum C3-9 demonstrated the importance of the late components in the development of thrombocytopenia but not leukopenia.C4-deficient guinea pigs had normal clotting times demonstrating that C4 was not required for normal clotting. In addition, development of the hypercoagulable state, evidenced by a marked shortening of the clotting time, was not observed on injection of endotoxin into C4D animals. Therefore, development of the hypercoagulable state paralleled the development of thrombocytopenia and required function of the classical complement pathway. Again, the importance of the late components of complement was emphasized by the failure of CVF-treated normal animals to develop hypercoagulability. These results demonstrate that endotoxin is capable of activating both the classical and alternate complement pathways in guinea pigs but that function of the classical pathway is an absolute requirement for the development of thrombocytopenia and the hypercoagulable state.
The effectiveness of various antibiotics commonly recommended for the prophylaxis of bacterial endocarditis has been evaluated in experimental streptococcal endocarditis in rabbits. High doses of penicillin G did not prevent the development of this infection. The only consistently successful prophylactic regimens using penicillin alone were those which provided for both an early high serum level and more than 9 h of effective antimicrobial action. Vancomycin was the only other drug which proved uniformly successful when given alone, even though the duration of its antimicrobial action in the blood was only 3 h. However, combined therapy using penicillin G or ampicillin with streptomycin was always effective in prophylaxis. Treatment with single injections of ampicillin, cephaloridine, cephalexin, clindamycin, cotrimoxazole, rifampicin, streptomycin, erythromycin, and tetracycline failed to prevent infection. The findings provide information on the effect of antimicrobials in vivo and may be applicable to the chemoprophylaxis of infective endocarditis in clinical practice.
Antibody to DNA was measured before and after treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) sera with bovine pancreatic deoxyribonuclease (DNase I). In 11 of 15 cases of SLE with active renal disease there was a significant increase in DNA-binding after DNase digestion, while no such increase was noted in inactive SLE, normal controls or in patients with nonlupus renal disease. The significant rise in DNA-binding after digestion indicated that DNA had bound in vivo to the anti-DNA in these sera. A striking correlation between the occurrence of these complexes and disease activity was shown. In eight cases of SLE nephritis where serial blood samples were obtained, the greatest increase in DNA-binding after DNase digestion occurred at the time of the severest renal disease. In addition, serum from a case of SLE with acute cerebritis but without evidence of renal disease also had a significant rise in binding during the acute phase. This assay provides proof of the existence of circulating DNA:anti-DNA complexes in some cases of SLE and can also be used to measure an apparently critical parameter of disease activity.
While extensive previous references in the literature leave little doubt that disease in the posterior pararenal space can obliterate the psoas margin either in its entirety or in part, little work has been done to evaluate the frequency of when the psoas cannot be visualized in normal individuals. The data presented here indicate that as the right psoas can be expected to be absent in normal patients from 16 to 43% of the time, therefore one cannot ;lean' heavily on it as a clinical tool. On the other hand, absence of the left psoas margin on a single film in the proper clinical setting may be sufficient to draw one's attention to the retroperitoneal space, more particularly the posterior pararenal space, as a possible site of abnormality. However, ancillary radiographic signs such as mass displacement, gas, calcium, or abnormal depositions of fat, should be carefully sought. Preservation of either or both psoas margins certainly does not exclude by any means significant extraperitoneal disease, as can be seen even in our small anecdotal series. The hepatic angle is absent with such frequency in normal patients that it too can only be of questionable value as a primary radiographic sign. In our normal group of patients the splenic angle was absent more frequently than it was present.
The clinical syndrome of meningeal carcinomatosis includes headache, dementia, radiculopathy, and cranial nerve palsies. Blindness may be the first, or most prominent, symptom. When blindness occurs in adult life, meningeal carcinomatosis should be included in the differential diagnosis, even in the absence of other symptoms and in the absence of known malignancy. Although all pathophysiological mechanisms of the blindness in meningeal carcinomatosis have not yet been elucidated, optic nerve involvement by meningeal tumour-cuffing, by chronic papilloedema, and by direct tumour infiltration represent the likeliest causes. In the neuropathological analysis of such cases, the importance of analysing the intra-orbital portion of the optic nerves, in addition to the portions of the optic nerve and chiasm usually examined at routine necropsy, is emphasized. A case is described to illustrate this point, with the only pathological abnormality in the optic nerves being found within 6 mm of the retina.
Renal medullary phospholipids (PLs) increase rapidly in rats placed on a low potassium diet. There is a unique pattern of morphologic change in renal medullary cells which parallels this biochemical alteration. Highly membranous multivesicular bodies (MVBs) appear in all cell types of the kidney medulla, and the number and size of these MVBs increase with further K depletion. Medullary PL levels are doubled in rats after 11 days on the low K diet and continued increase occurs with longer depletion. There are no major changes in the relative proportion of different medullary PL species with this increase. The rise in PL levels is quickly reversed by the addition of K to the low K diet of depleted rats. Potassium repletion returns renal medullary PL levels to normal values with a concomitant rapid loss of MVBs from medullary cells. Tissue slices of kidney medulla from rats in various stages of K depletion have been incubated with radioactive precursors of PL. These incubation studies indicate that the in vitro ability to incorporate label into PL is increased in medulla from K-depleted animals, suggesting that increased renal medullary PL synthesis causes the PL accumulation in K deficiency.
Hepatitis-associated (Australia) antigen (HAA) was detected in the sera of 16 (50%) of 33 patients with Hodgkin's disease; all of these patients had received the same treatment for approximately two years, and they had been in complete remission for at least two years. The HAA-positive patients had significantly higher levels of serum SGPT and significantly lower bromsulphalein clearance than the HAA-negative patients. Histological changes compatible with a diagnosis of chronic persistent hepatitis were found in the livers of 12 of the 16 HAA-positive patients and in five of the 17 HAA-negative patients (p < 0.05). In 128 patients with Hodgkin's disease who had received various forms of treatment and who were studied at various stages of remission, HAA was found in the sera of 42 (33%). Tests for HAA repeated four months later in positive reactors of both groups showed persisting antigenaemia. Hepatitis-associated antigen was not present in the sera of any of 36 patients with Hodgkin's disease studied when the diagnosis was first made and before treatment had begun. These observations suggest that persistence of HAA and the presence of chronic persistent hepatitis were more likely to be related to the treatment the patients had received than to the disease itself.
Twenty-two subjects with hypothyroidism have been studied in detail before and during replacement therapy with L-thyroxine (T-4). All subjects were stabilized on the minimum dose of T-4 which was necessary to suppress their serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentration to normal, and on this dose most subjects had a normal or impaired TSH response to thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH). The daily dose of T-4 required to suppress TSH was 0.1 mg (13 subjects), 0.15 mg (six subjects), and 0.2 mg (three subjects). It was shown that all subjects were euthyroid on these doses and, using a range of thyroid function tests, that they were normal in all respects when compared with a group of euthyroid controls, with the exception of a small group who had a marginally raised serum triiodo-L-thyronine (T-3) concentration. It has been shown that those subjects who required the larger doses of T-4 had a more advanced degree of thyroid failure than those who were stabilized on 0.1 mg T-4 daily. It is concluded that conventional doses of T-4 (0.2-0.4 mg daily) are often associated with subclinical hyperthyroidism.
Total serum haemolytic complement activity (CH(50)) and the serum concentrations of both the third and fourth components of the complement system (C3 and C4) have been measured in 29 control subjects, 92 patients with chronic hepatocellular disease, and eight patients with large duct biliary tract obstruction. The mean C4 concentration was reduced in all types of chronic liver disease studied. However, the mean CH(50) and C3 values were increased in compensated primary biliary cirrhosis, were relatively normal in non-cirrhotic chronic active hepatitis, and were decreased in cryptogenic cirrhosis, particularly when ascites was present. There was a significant correlation between CH(50) and C3 in patients with chronic liver disease but no correlation between CH(50) and C4 or between C3 and C4. Raised values for CH(50) and C3 in primary biliary cirrhosis may be due at least in part to concomitant cholestasis since these values tend to be raised in patients with large duct biliary tract obstruction. Although primary biliary cirrhosis, chronic active hepatitis, and cryptogenic cirrhosis are considered to be part of a spectrum of chronic liver disease associated with disturbed immunity, the results of this study emphasize that there are clearly definable differences between these diseases in terms of the pattern of changes in serum complement.
The control of calcitonin secretion in humans has been studied extensively only in patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma since the peripheral concentration of the hormone in normal subjects is too low for accurate measurement by existing assay procedures. However, we have recently found that the concentrations of calcitonin in the peripheral plasma of hypocalcemic subjects during provocative tests of hormone secretion were high enough to be measured by radioimmunoassay. Accordingly, the effect of calcium and pentagastrin infusions on plasma calcitonin was studied in nine patients with pseudohypoparathyroidism, seven patients with idiopathic hypoparathyroidism, and six patients with hypocalcemia not due to parathyroid disease. The infusion of calcium in these hypocalcemic subjects resulted in increases in plasma calcitonin to levels that could be readily detected by our radioimmunoassay. Pentagastrin infusion also caused an increase of plasma calcitonin in some subjects, but calcium was approximately 10 times more effective than gastrin in its stimulatory effect on hormone secretion. These results demonstrate that in humans as well as other mammals the secretion of calcitonin by parafollicular cells that are not involved by medullary thyroid carcinoma is directly related to plasma calcium and that gastrin can also stimulate hormone secretion. The results are consistent with the thesis that the secretion of calcitonin by normal human subjects does occur but at peripheral concentrations of the hormone below the detection limits of most existing immunoassays; hypocalcemia leads to increased stores of hormone that can be related by the appropriate stimuli.
Blood plasma obtained from an individual with abnormal thromboplastin formation, due to deficiency of Fletcher factor, was fully corrected by 2% of normal, Hageman factor- or PTA-deficient plasma. It was also reconstituted by addition of highly purified human or rabbit prekallikrein. The plasma failed to generate kinin upon exposure to kaolin, a defect which was also corrected by addition of prekallikrein. Prekallikrein antigen was not detectable in this plasma. Fletcher factor-deficient plasma did not support the normal generation of PF/dil when dilute plasma was incubated in glass vessels and injected intracutaneously. Small quantities of Fletcher factor-deficient or Hageman factor-deficient plasma corrected the ability of the other to generate PF/dil. The formation of plasmin in dilute, acidified plasma incubated with kaolin was also abnormal in Fletcher factor-deficient plasma. Plasmin generation was normalized by addition of prekallikrein or small quantities of Hageman factor-deficient plasma. The data support the identity of Fletcher factor and prekallikrein.
The irreversible disposal rate coefficient for free fatty acids in the plasma of fed and starved rats was determined after a single intravenous injection of [1-(14)C]palmitic acid into each rat. The dose of labelled palmitic acid was given as a complex with (131)I-labelled albumin in rat serum. The total amount of [1-(14)C]palmitic acid remaining in the plasma was determined at short times after injection from the (14)C/(131)I ratio in the injected serum and in the collected plasma. The rate coefficient was determined from the area under the curve that describes the disappearance of [1-(14)C]palmitic acid with time from the plasma. Possible sources of error in these determinations are discussed. The irreversible disposal rate coefficient was significantly higher in fed rats (2.07min(-1)) than in rats which had been starved for 24h (1.53min(-1)). The possible relationship between this difference and the processes whereby free fatty acids are removed from the plasma is discussed briefly. An estimate of the irreversible disposal rate for free fatty acids in plasma was made from the concentration of free fatty acids in plasma and from the volume of distribution of (131)I-labelled albumin. The irreversible disposal rate was significantly lower in the fed state than in the starved.
The susceptibility of herpes simplex type 1 and type 2 viruses to 9-beta-d-arabinofuranosyladenine (ara-A) was tested in intracerebrally infected mice. Subcutaneously administered ara-A resulted in markedly equivalent and reproducible chemotherapeutic activity against both serotypes of herpes simplex viruses. Administration of ara-A by several different intermittent dosage regimens showed that change in pattern of response in terms of survivors appears to be influenced more by total amount of drug administered than by schedule or duration of drug treatment. In general, surviving drug-treated, virus-infected animals survived rechallenge with 1,000 LD(50) of the respective homologous virus inoculated intracerebrally on the 21st day after the initial virus inoculation. A neutralization test performed in vitro-in vivo confirmed the identity of the two distinct serotypes of herpes simplex virus employed. The data indicate that the genital form of herpes simplex virus (type 2) is as sensitive as the oral-mouth form (type 1) to the significant therapeutic activity of ara-A.
Cladosporium trichoides and Sporothrix schenckii are fungi known to be pathogenic for man. No effective chemotherapy is available for cladosporiosis, and systemic sporotrichosis can be very resistant to antifungal chemotherapy. Experimental infections of mice with these fungi resembled their respective infections in man and provided a model for evaluating a new antifungal agent, 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC). Our results with four isolates of C. trichoides demonstrated a statistically significant dose-related therapeutic effect with 5-FC. Mortality was significantly reduced in all treatment groups, and survivors showed no clinical sign of disease despite positive brain cultures. Results with a single isolate of S. schenckii were less encouraging. Fatality rate was significantly decreased in all treatment groups, but no trend was noted with increasing 5-FC dosage. Survivors manifested the signs of active disease, and all liver and spleen cultures were positive for S. schenckii. These results indicated that 5-FC may be the first drug useful in the treatment of cladosporiosis, and (ii) 5-FC may have only limited therapeutic benefit in systemic sporotrichosis.
Cephacetrile, a new derivative of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid, was evaluated in 27 patients. Soft tissue infections due primarily to gram-positive cocci were treated in 16 patients; 12 had bacteriological and clinical cure, and 4 improved but the lesions resolved incompletely or cultures remained positive. Seven of eight patients with respiratory tract infections were cured, including three with pneumococcal pneumonia; the eighth proved to have a noninfectious process and failed to respond. Two patients with acute urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli had prompt clinical and bacteriological improvement, but follow-up was incomplete. One patient with sepsis due to Staphylococcus aureus expired. Laboratory abnormalities observed during cephacetrile therapy included mild eosinophilia in four patients, thrombocytosis in nine, direct Coombs' test positivity in four, and an elevated serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase in eight patients. No evidence of nephrotoxicity was detected. Severe superinfection due to Enterobacter species was observed in one patient. Mean peak serum concentrations of cephacetrile were 22, 69, and 104 mug/ml after 1 g intramuscularly, 1 g intravenously, and 1.5 g intravenously, respectively. Thus, in early studies cephacetrile was efficacious for selected bacterial infections, but determination of its comparative value within the cephalosporin group of antibiotics requires further clinical investigation.
Topical application of 1-beta-d-ribofuranosyl-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxamide (Virazole) significantly inhibited the development of herpetic keratitis in the eyes of rabbits, as determined by both infectivity and Draize scoring parameters. Significant inhibition of the infection was demonstrated with 10% concentrations of Virazole; a 1% solution had a moderate effect, whereas doses of 0.1 and 0.01% had little activity in this system. A 5% concentration of Virazole similarly inhibited vaccinia keratitis in rabbits. Encephalitis-induced mortality in hamsters initially infected intraocularly with herpesvirus was significantly prevented or inhibited by topical application of 5, 10, and 20% concentrations of Virazole. Surviving, treated hamsters had no signs of herpes keratitis. The 20% concentration was the approximate LD(50) in hamsters. Virazole administered subcutaneously or intraperitoneally to mice did not appreciably alter the course of herpes virus- or vaccinia virus-induced encephalitis in these animals, although in a herpesvirus experiment direct injection of the drug into the brains 3 hr prior to virus inoculation resulted in a significant survivor increase.
Ticarcillin was administered as initial therapy during 73 episodes of infections occurring in 69 adults with neoplastic diseases. During the first six infections, doses of 5 gm were dissolved in 200 ml of solvent and administered intravenously over a 2-h period every 6 h. Four of six infections responded to therapy. However, two of the five Pseudomonas infections failed to respond, whereas the organisms causing the infection were sensitive to ticarcillin in vitro. During the remaining 67 infections, doses of 3.5 g were similarly dissolved and administered intravenously over a 2-h period every 4 h. The overall response to ticarcillin in these 67 infections was 43%. However, 18 of 20 Pseudomonas infections, three Proteus spp. infections, and one infection caused by H. influenzae responded. Only 1 of 7 infections caused by mixed organisms and 5 of 13 infections in which the etiologic agent could not be identified responded. Ticarcillin was ineffective against the majority of Escherichia coli and Klebsiella spp. infections, organisms which were resistant to ticarcillin in vitro. The majority of patients were neutropenic, but the response rate was not dependent on the number of circulating polymorphonuclear neutrophilic leukocytes. Superinfection occurred in seven patients. Erythematous skin rash occurred in two patients, which subsided after discontinuation of the drug. No liver or renal toxicity occurred that could be attributed to ticarcillin.
Diagnostic considerations based upon the nystagmogram are limited. Quantitative assessment of horizontal canal sensitivity is available through the use of culmination frequency or culmination slow phase velocity. Qualitative characteristics of nystagmometry have been sought but with no satisfactory results. Three distinctive features of the caloric nystagmus were evaluated and were found to be suggestive or outrightly pathognomonic for retrolabyrinthine or central nervous system abnormalities. These are: Vestibular decruitment. The disproportionate caloric responsiveness when a weak stimulus elicits a more intense nystagmic reaction than a strong stimulus is capable of creating. Hyperactive vestibular responsiveness Ocular fixation reversal phenomenon. Contrary to the normal behaviour, the elimination of fixation decreases the nystagmus intensity instead of facilitating the evoked nystagmus. The assessment of these qualitative features of the caloric nystagmus in addition to the quantitative measurements widens the scope of our diagnostic capabilities.
The individual features of the Stein-Leventhal syndrome has been submitted to a step-by-step review by the author. After a critical study of its clinical manifestations, the author insisted on the variously hypothetized pathways of biosynthesis of ovarian steroids, commenting each one of them and drawing diagrams of special clarity. The alterations that can possibly occur in Stein-Leventhal syndrome: aromatization deficiency, partial enzymatic inhibition due to 3 beta ol dehydrogenase deficiency, have been investigated. To follow, the author discussed: the mechanism of adrenocortical interference, the part played by the pituitary gland and hypothalamus. In the author's opinion, four etiological types of the "micropolycystic ovarian syndrome" can be distinguished, according as the hypothalamic origin is a primary one or secondary to hereditary hypercorticism, and according as the biosynthesis inhibition takes place at the aromatization level or at the levels at which 3 beta ol dehydrogenase activity exerts itself. Interesting therapeutical and prognostic conclusions can be drawn from these suggestions.
Among malignant tumors, none has become as much as this one a battlefield for radiotherapists and surgeons to compete with each other or to fight side by side. Everything has been said concerning this frequent type of carcinoma, at the same time severe and curable: it ranges from bilateral mastectomy with de principe mediastinal emptying to unconditional abstention. Inside this Tower of Babel, everyone speaks his own language, proclaims his own truth. Everyone produces the results obtained in relation to the anatomoclinical forms he deals with, the techniques he uses, the equipment at his disposal; well, the relationship of these various facteurs is sometimes difficult to understand. Everyone would occasionnally mention the failures of fellowmembers of the profession, but would stick to his own opinion without always realizing they were from the start cases doubtfully amenable to surgery. The status of surgery still remains enormous in a world that counts a far greater number of excellent surgeons as compared to that of curative radiotherapists. Surgery indeed remains the only resource for most, the best treatment for many, and the only security for those who trust radiations first. Generally speaking, present trends are towards a simplification of treatments, whether surgical or radiotherapeutical ones. But it is easier to report on own's personal work (we belong to the group "B") than to produce a valid comprehensive picture of the various Schools....
The specific activities of both the succinate dehydrogenase-coenzyme Q(10) reductase and the DPNH-cytochrome c reductase [NADH:(acceptor)oxidoreductase, EC 1.6.99.3] were determined in mitochondria from 40 diseased gingival biopsies from patients with periodontal disease and from 24 control biopsies from nondiseased areas (clinically evaluated) of gingival tissues from the same mouths of the patients from whom the diseased gingival tissues were taken. The control tissue was taken during normal surgical procedures, such as for gingival recontouring and tuberosity removal. The diseased gingival biopsies showed a mean specific activity for the succinate dehydrogenase-coenzyme Q(10) reductase which was higher (P < 0.02) than that of the control biopsies, and which increased (P < 0.01) when the assays utilized exogenous coenzyme Q(3), and corresponded to an average deficiency of coenzyme Q(10)-enzyme activity of 35%. About 60% of the 40 diseased gingival tissues showed a deficiency of coenzyme Q(10) at its site in this succinate-coenzyme Q(10) enzyme. Of the 24 control tissues, 20% showed deficiencies of coenzyme Q(10). As a group, the control tissues showed no deficiency of coenzyme Q(10). No deficiency of coenzyme Q(10) at its site in DPNH-cytochrome c reductase was observed for either the control or diseased gingival tissues, as groups or individually.
Although, in suitable patients, oral chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) dissolves gallstones, the results of recent animal studies suggest that it might be hepatotoxic. Liver function was therefore studied in patients with gallstones before and during treatment with CDCA and liver biopsies were carried out both in patients with cholelithiasis given bile acid therapy and in those who had been given no medical treatment. In 25 patients treated with 0.5-1.5 g CDCA/day (7-20 mg kg body weight(-1) day(-1)) there was no significant change in serum bilirubin, albumin, globulin, transaminase, isocitric dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase levels before and at monthly intervals during six months' treatment. The kinetics of bromsulphthalein (BSP) clearance and its apparent transport maximum were not significantly changed during CDCA therapy. The mean fasting serum bile acid concentrations of 18.0 +/- SEM 1.2 mumoles/litre before and 20.0 +/- 3.5 mumoles/litre during treatment were both significantly greater than control values. Liver histology was not appreciably different in 11 patients treated with CDCA from that in eight patients with untreated cholelithiasis and in three patients who had received CDCA three to four months before biopsy. These results suggest that in doses of 0.5 to 1.5 g/day CDCA is not hepatotoxic in man.
The biliary tract excretion of three cephalosporins, cefazolin, cephaloridine, and cephalothin, was compared in patients with biliary tract disease. In the absence of obstruction, mean antibiotic levels in bile from gall bladder and common duct in patients undergoing cholecystectomy were highest for cefazolin (17 and 31 mug/ml, respectively) than either cephaloridine (7 and 9 mug/ml) or cephalothin (1 and 4 mug/ml). Biliary tract levels generally paralleled serum levels. In no patient with cystic duct obstruction were any of the cephalosporins detectable in appreciable amounts in gall bladder bile. In patients with T-tube drainage given each of the three different cephalosporins on separate days, concentrations of cefazolin in bile were many-fold higher than either cephaloridine or cephalothin. Peak levels of cefazolin in T-tube bile averaged 51 mug/ml after intravenous and 26 mug/ml after intramuscular administration, whereas mean peak levels of cephalothin and cephaloridine were only 6 and 16 mug/ml, respectively. Here, too, T-tube levels reflected serum concentrations and obstruction to biliary flow impaired excretion of each of the drugs.
A retrospective study comparing the EEG findings of two groups of patients with primary systemic malignant disease (mainly bronchial carcinoma) was carried out. One group of 13 patients (20 EEGs) had proven supratentorial cerebral metastases at necropsy, some also subtentorial, and the other group of 10 patients (15 EEGs) had no cerebral involvement at necropsy. The latter group was studied to assess the possible confusing effects in the EEG of metabolic derangements and other factors which would interfere with accurate prediction of the presence of metastases. The EEGs were masked and assessed independently by two raters using a special proforma. They found that recordings from patients with cerebral metastases had persistent focal delta activity, intermittent focal or local delta activity, persistent or intermittent lateralized delta activity, monorhythmic frontal delta activity in the alert patient, as well as a higher frequency of post-central background rhythms. These factors predicted the presence of cerebral metastases (when they were 2 cm in diameter or larger) in 12 out of the 13 patients (four of these without localized neurological disorder), the EEGs being taken on average eight weeks before death. It is concluded that the EEG is valuable in the investigation of these patients.
Serum thyrotropin (TSH) and prolactin levels were measured after intravenous administration of 400 mug of synthetic thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in 13 normal subjects and six hypothyroid patients before and after three days of administration of dexamethasone 2 mg per day. In the normal subjects dexamethasone suppressed baseline serum levels and secretion of TSH after TRH stimulation. On the other hand, it had no effect on the hypothyroid patients. In the control group dexamethasone also suppressed baseline serum levels but not secretion of prolactin after TRH stimulation. Dexamethasone had no effect on prolactin levels in the hypothyroid group. It is concluded that in normal patients short-term administration of dexamethasone has an inhibitory effect on TSH secretion at the pituitary level. As for prolactin, our results could indicate that TRH is a more potent stimulator of prolactin secretion than of TSH secretion, or that TSH and prolactin pituitary thresholds for TRH are different.
A histological comparison has been made of the giant cells in 10 cases which had been diagnosed as central giant cell granuloma of the jaws and 10 cases diagnosed as giant cell tumor of long bone. The numbers of nuclei in each of 50 giant cells were counted in the 20 lesions. The giant cells were measured in order to compare their sizes in the respective lesions. It was found that the giant cells of the jaw lesions contained significantly fewer nuclei than those of the lesions in other bones. Secondly it was found that cells in the lesions of long bone have significantly larger dimensions than those in the jaw lesions. There was, however, an area of overlap. It was concluded that these data supported the view that giant cell tumor and giant cell granuloma are distinct entities. Some giant cell lesions of long bones are, however, morphologically indistinguishable from lesions of the jaws; and conversely giant cell lesions of the jaws are indistinguishable from some giant cell lesions of the long bones. It seems possible, therefore, that some jaw lesions are giant cell tumors and that some giant cell lesions outside the jaws are giant cell granulomas.
The effects of several non-neuronal cell types on neurotransmitter synthesis in cultures of dissociated sympathetic neurons from the new-born rat were studied. Acetylcholine synthesis from radioactive choline was increased 100- to 1000-fold in the presence of non-neuronal cells from sympathetic ganglia. This increase was roughly dependent on the number of ganglionic non-neuronal cells present. The effect did not appear to be due to an increased plating efficiency of neurons, since the non-neuronal cells were capable of increasing acetylcholine synthesis after only 48-hr contact with neurons that had been previously grown without non-neuronal cells for 2 weeks. C6 rat glioma cells were also able to stimulate acetylcholine synthesis, but 3T3 mouse fibroblast cells had little or no effect. None of the non-neuronal cell types synthesized detectable acetylcholine in the absence of the neurons. The ganglionic non-neuronal cells had no significant effect on catecholamine synthesis (which occurs in the absence of non-neuronal cells).
Clinical ergotism as seen today results almost exclusively from the excessive intake of ergotamine tartrate in the treatment of migraine headache. Although both gangrenous and convulsive symptoms are seen in naturally occurring ergotism resulting from the ingestion of fungus infected rye, only gangrenous ergotism has been reported following the excessive ingestion of ergotamine tartrate. The symptoms of both iatrogenic and naturally occurring ergotism appear to result from regional ischemia caused by ergot induced vasospasm. This report discribes experiences in the diagnosis and management of two patients with unusual manifestations of iatrogenic ergotism. One patient presented with ischemia of all extremities and bilateral foot drop probably due to ischemic damage to the common peroneal nerves, a finding not previously described in ergot intoxication. The foot drop totally resolved in several months following the discontinuation of ergot. A second patient presented with unilateral leg ischemia and transient monocular blindness, both of which resolved after discontinuation of ergot. Both patients displayed typical angiographic findings of ergotism. There is no convincing evidence that any treatment other than discontinuation of ergotamine is of benefit in the treatment of iatrogenic ergotism.
A severe deficiency of a red cell pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase was found to be associated with hereditary hemolytic anemia in four members of three kindreds. The syndrome was characterized by marked increases above normal in red cell basophilic stippling, total nucleotides, and GSH and by a fairly severe deficiency of ribosephosphate pyrophosphokinase (EC 2.7.6.1.). Patient erythrocytes uniquely contained large amounts of pyrimidine 5'-ribonucleotides. In earlier studies, these were erroneously considered to be adenosine phosphates, since all previous investigations of the nucleotides of human red cells and reticulocytes have shown 97% or more to contain adenine. Total nucleotides in patient cells were present in amounts 3-6 times greater than normal, and approximately 80% contained pyrimidine. The ultraviolet spectral curves of deproteinized red cell extracts exhibited a shift in maximum absorbance from the usual 256-257 nm to approximately 266-270 nm, and absorbance at 250, 270, 280, and 290 nm, expressed as a ratio of that at 260 nm, differed greatly from normal. The spectral characteristics of extracts provide the basis of a readily performed screening procedure, which does not require enzyme assay. The nucleotidase activity in deficient red cells assayed less than 14%, and usually less than 10%, of normal and much less in terms of reticulocyte-rich blood, where it was consistently found to be increased. The enzyme has a pH optimum of 7.5-8.0, is inhibited by EDTA, and does not utilize purine 5'-ribonucleotides or beta-glycerophosphate as substrates. While comparatively few family members have been available thus far for study, initial data are compatible with an autosomal, recessive mode of transmission of the deficiency. The pyrimidine 5'-ribonucleotides are presumably derived from RNA degradation and, not being diffusible, accumulate when the enzyme catalyzing their dephosphorylation is deficient. It is postulated that the prominent basophilic stippling results from retarded ribosomal RNA degradation secondary to accumulation of degradation products, namely pyrimidine 5'-ribonucleotides. Ribosephosphate pyrophosphokinase deficiency is considered to be an epiphenomenon. The mechanism responsible for increased red cell GSH is unknown.
Six cases of thyroid carcinoma arising in a thyroglossal duct cyst are described and combined with previously reported cases to provide a total of 66 cases for retrospective analysis. Most presented as benign thyroglossal duct cyst, and the malignant nature of the lesion was not recognized until the permanent pathology sections were reviewed. Eight of 10 patients with metastatic disease in retrospect had preoperative indications of malignancy as manifest by clinically suspicious nodes or a thyroglossal cyst larger than the mean for the series. The primary cell type in all cases was papillary thyroid carcinoma. Local resection by the Sistrunk method and suppressive doses of thyroid are recommended for the patient with papillary thyroid carcinoma arising in a thyroglossal duct cyst when there is no evidence of extension of the malignancy beyond the confines of the cyst. The patient presenting with metastatic carcinoma should, of course, be treated with appropriate local resection, hormonal manipulation, thyroid ablation, and lymphadenectomy as indicated by his age and sex, the cell type of the tumor, and the extent of local and metastatic disease.
As further statistical evidence accumulates it is becoming evident that a major factor in the differing patient salvage between perforative and uncomplicated cancer of the colon and rectum is the element of infection. The absence of abdominal sepsis is undoubtedly responsible for the lessened morbidity and mortality found in the treatment of established fistulas. Surgical attention should therefore be directed first to the eradication of the primary source of infection, the perforated tumor. The safety with which an intestinal anastomosis may be made in the presence of edema and inflammation is a matter of mature judgement on the part of the operating surgeon. Postoperative suture line leakage should be avoidable. Extirpative surgery with or without anastomosis, coupled with the judicious drainage of the peritoneal cavity, antibiotic coverage, and blood volume support should continue to give improved results in the management of this distressing complication of cancer of the colon and rectum.
Hyperthyroidism developed in three patients during the administration of potassium iodide given for the purpose of blocking the thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine liberated in the course of the 125I-fibrinogen test. In a consecutive series of 31 geriatric patients, who received potassium iodide for the same reason, biochemical hyperthyroidism developed in three instances and significant depression of thyroid function was observed in The performance and the interpretation of the 125I-fibrinogen test are unaffected if iodide is not administered to the patient. The possible hazards to some patients of either induced hyperthyroidism or faulty assessment of thyroid function may be greater than the risk of thyroid irradiation. It is suggested that for the performance of the 125I-fibrinogen test potassium iodide need not be given to the elderly and should be given in a dose of 30 mg daily for two weeks to younger patients. Under certain circumstances potassium perchlorate may be a preferable drug for preventing the accumulation of radioactive iodine by the thyroid.
The Authors report 4 cases of spinal lipomas: 2 intradural, 2 completely intrarachidian extradural. The intradural lipomas observed were 2 cases in the lumbo-sacral area, both operated on by the partial removal of the lesion with very good clinical results; histologically they were found to be 2 fibrolipomas. The 2 cases of extradural lipomas, completely intrarachidian, were situated in the thoracic and lumbar areas. Both were operated on with very good results and it was possible to remove all the lesion. They were found to be an angiolipoma and a mature lipoma. On the basis of the literature, the Authors maintain that, for these cases of intradural lipoma, the disembryogenetic hypothesis (such as embryological ectopia) should be accepted as etiopathogenesis. They point out the nature and origin of extradural lipomas, arising in a site where adipose tissue is abundant, have never aroused interest on their origin, but they too can be considered malformative lesions of the hamartomatous type and not neoplastic lesions. These data are confirmed by the remarkable frequency in these cases of the mixed variety of lipoangiomato or angiomiolipomatosis. The Authors thus underline the importance of the relationship between the presence of a subcutaneous lipoma in cases of completely intrarachidian extradural lipomas to support the hypothesis of malformative origin.
A case of craniopharingioma developed and situated in the cavity of the third ventricle with no connections with the base of the skull is reported. The patient was a thirty-year-old man, who within a few months had developed a diencephalic syndrome followed by psychic disorders and intracranial hypertension. Cerebral scan: large area of accumulation in the supra and retrosellar region. Bilateral carotid angiogram: no pathological staining but the venous angle and the internal cerebral vein were elevated and shifted posteriorly. Pneumoencephalogram: free and normal basal cisterns; the third ventrical is almost totally filled by a mass; small dilatation of the lateral ventricles. Operation: right trans ventricular approach to the third ventricle. The tumour was the size of an apricot encapsulated with a smooth surface, and adherent to the wall of the third ventricle only in the region of the infundibulum. There was little bleeding and no cystic component. Total removal was performed except for a few millimeters of capsule in the infundibular region. The postoperative course was complicated by an irreversible diencephalic insufficiency with death on the 27th postoperative day. Autopsy clearly showed that the inferior surface of the brain in the diencephalic region was not involved by the mass which hystologically was doubtless a craniopharingioma. Only two other cases of craniopharingioma of the third ventricle were so far reported in the literature by Cashion and Young in
After a brief review of the post infarction syndrome, the authors report the results from the examinations of 257 patients with myocardial infarctions and post infarction states, treated at the Therapeutic clinic for the last 10 years. They found post infarction syndrome in 12 patients--4,8 per cent. Six of the patients--2,4 per cent--were with a complete clinical picture and six patients--2,4%--were with a frustrate form. In two of the patients, the syndrome developed as early as the first week and in the rest--10--between the first and the eighth week post infarction onset. The most frequent, almost compulsory symptoms of the syndrome were: febrility, leukocytosis, accelerated erythrocyte sedimentation, followed by chest pains, pericarditis, pleuritis and pneumonia. tnine of the patients were established to have anterior or anterolateral infarction and only three were with infarction of the posterior wall. With respect to the infarction severity, preceding the syndrome--two patients were with a light infarction form; four with moderately severe and six--with severe. The authors stress upon the particular importance of the combination of the syndrome with heart aneurysm post myocardial infarction, observed in two of the patients. At the end they accentuate on the diagnostic difficulties, caused by the syndrome.
The results from the complex radioisotope and clinical examination of 105 patients with chronic pyelonephritis are presented. 131J-hippuran clearance was performed according to the single injection method. The obtained average value 583--166 ml/min 1,73 m2 for the patients in renal compensated stage is lower than the normal. The average value for renal plasma flow is 229.58--127 ml/min/1,73 m2 for patients in renal decompensated stage. The filtration fraction--FF showed decreased values both in renal compensated (0,14) and in decompensated patients (0,09). That gives us sufficient grounds to assume some changes in the glomerular function even in the compensated stage of chronic pyelonephritis and during the decompensated stage it considerably decreases due to manifested morphological changes, addecting also the glomerular apparatus. Isotope nephrogram was made to 71 of the patients, which proved normal in those in the compensated stage or with slight alteration, predominatly unilaterally, while in the cases with decompensated stage--the changes were strongly manifested, most frequently in the three segments, bilaterally.
The etiological diagnosis of the third nerve palsy frequently imposes a real problem. Therefore, we have attempted to review the different causes by studying 109 personal cases and those described in the literature. Among our 109 cases, 36% were related to an aneurys,, 16% to a tumour, 12% to vascular diseases. Twenty-seven percent of our cases could not be clearly explained and were regarded as "neuritis". In total, sudden and isolated palsy, aneurysm is the first etiology to be considered. However the high incidence of palsies of unknown origin is striking and has been observed by other authors. The various etiological diagnosis of the third nerve palsy are also discussed, as well as the paraclinical investigations to be performed. In addition to the general and neurological examinations, analysis of the CSF, dosage of the PBI and of the glycemia, serologic tests for syphilis, endrophonium (Tensilon) and neostigmine tests, plain skull radiographies as well as frontal and posterior planigraphies of the cranial sinuses, must be kept in mind. Angiography and air encephlography will exclude intracerebral organic lesions. When ptosis and progressive ophtalmplegia are associated, and myasthenia or hyperthyroidism have been excluded, myopathy must be considered and a muscle biopsy may be performed. Finally when symptoms and signs of multineuritis are present and when expansive or vascular lesions of the brain stem has been excluded, examination of the CSF would sometimes help in the diagnosis of encephalitis.
From one personal patient and 13 reported in the literature, arthrodentoosteodysplasia (ADOD) is defined as a heritable disorder of connective tissue with the main clinical manifestations of laxity of joints, early loss of teeth, and multiple osteolytic lesions, including acroosteolysis on roentgenographic examination. These lesions probably represent "pseudoosteolysis" with faulty primary bone formation rather than true osteolysis of previously normal bone. ADOD is an example of relational pleiotropism with most clinical manifestations representing secondary effects and deformities. The cranial sutures frequently remain uncalcified and contain multiple wormian bones in unusual places. Secondary deformities may be progressive and affect primarily the skull, spine, fingers and fingernails. Pathologic fractures are clinically the most important manifestation of ADOD. In one family the mother and four of her six children were affected. The other nine case reports describe sporadic instances. ADOD is presumed to be caused by an autosomal dominant gene, the sporadic cases representing new mutations.
Derangements in iron metabolism following liver damage were studied with special reference to iron deposit in relation to reticuloendothelial functions. In clinical studies, the metabolic fate of chondroitin sulfuric 59Fe, given intravenously, was examined in patients with chronic hepatitis or liver cirrhosis, diagnosed by liver biopsy. In experimental studies, liver damage was induced in rats by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) injection and the labeled iron was similarly administered. 1) In patients with chronic hepatitis or liver cirrhosis, a reduction in uptake and utilization rates of the labeled iron was observed. 2) In rats with CCl4-induced liver damage, these parameters of the reticuloendothelial function were more reduced in parallel with the extent of hepatic fibrosis. 3) Similar conclusion was obtained from the analysis of iron distribution among tissues and of iron incorporation into several fractions of the liver: that is the uptake into non-hemin iron was less as the fibrosis advanced. In addition, more iron was incorporated into hemosiderin fraction and less into ferritin fraction. The findings may suggest a derangement in apoferritin synthesis as well as in release mechanism of deposit iron. 4) It is suggested that derangements in iron metabolism following liver damage are mainly due to reduction of the reticuloendothelial functions, but are partly due to changes in hematopoiesis and protein metabolism.
Currently accepted modes of clinical and radiologic evaluation were analyzed retrospectively in 55 patients with "normal-pressure" hydrocephalus on whom a cerebrospinal fluid shunting procedure was done. When applied alone, each criterion neither reliably differentiated normal-pressure hydrocephalus from cortical atrophy nor indicated in a significant number of cases which patients would benefit from shunting. Therefore, future prospective evaluations should include clinical history, physical and neurologic examination, skull radiography, echoencephalography, psychometric testing, brain scanning, lumbar puncture with cerebrospinal fluid laboratory analysis, isotope cisternography, pneumoencephalography, and constant-infusion manometric testing. Cerebral angiography may add optional support to the diagnosis of cortical atrophy but always should be done before lumbar puncture if there is evidence of intracranial mass and/or increased pressure is revealed on neurologic examination, skull radiographs, echograms, or brain scans. Patients with seizures should undergo electroencephalography. Postoperative improvement should be evaluated using serial neurologic and psychometric examinations. Echoencephalography may confirm postshunt reductions in ventricular size.
Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) exists in human tissue, and is indispensable to mitochondrial enzymes of respiration. CoQ was administered to children with preclinical muscular dystrophy, CoQ enzymology was emphasized, and serum creatine phosphokinase, CPK, (ATP:creatine N-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.3.2) was repeatedly monitored.A 40-week treatment of an infant, 1-2 years of age, reduced serum CPK (P < 0.001; total CPK assays, 76). A 40-week treatment of a boy, 3-5 years of age, reduced serum CPK (P < 0.01); treatment through 80 weeks reduced CPK (P < 0.001; total CPK assays, 118). This response of preclinical dystrophy to CoQ implies a deficiency of CoQ in skeletal muscle that was actually found previously by assay of the activity of the succinate dehydrogenase:coenzyme Q(10) reductase of the rectus abdominis. The relationships among a CoQ deficiency in muscle, serum CPK, and use of CPK in muscle are uncertain; however, restoration of CoQ enzyme activity in muscle by oral administration of CoQ could lead to increased use of CPK in muscle to form phosphocreatine from creatine and ATP, with a corresponding decrease in serum levels of CPK. The great excess of CPK in serum comes from deteriorating muscle in which CPK is below normal.
Incubation of mouse myeloma microsomes with GDP-[(14)C]mannose results in the biosynthesis of [(14)C]mannose phosphoryl dolichol [Baynes, J. W., Hsu, A.-F. & Heath, E. C. J. Biol. Chem. 248, 5693-5704] and a [(14)C]mannose- and N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc)-containing oligosaccharide derivative of dolichol. Thus, [(14)C]mannose phosphoryl dolichol and [(14)C]mannose-labeled oligosaccharide pyrophosphoryl dolichol were isolated from incubation mixtures by solubilization in 2% (w/v) Triton X-100 and the lipids were separated from small molecules by gel filtration fractionation. After removal of radioactive protein from the preparation, the two lipid derivatives were separated quantitatively by fractionation on a concanavalin A-Sepharose column; [(14)C]mannose phosphoryl dolichol was not retained by the affinity resin but [(14)C]mannose-oligosaccharide pyrophosphoryl dolichol adsorbed to the gel and was eluted with alpha-methylmannoside.[(14)C]Mannose-oligosaccharide pyrophosphoryl dolichol appeared to be homogeneous when fractionated on DEAE-cellulose and in several thin-layer chromatographic systems. Treatment of [(14)C]mannose oligosaccharide pyrophosphoryl dolichol with 10% (w/v) NH(4)OH at 100 degrees for 1 hr resulted in the formation of a water-soluble radioactive oligosaccharide phosphate which was isolated and characterized as [Man](5) --> [GlcNAc --> GlcNAc --> P. Incubation of [(14)C]mannose-oligosaccharide pyrophosphoryl dolichol with myeloma microsomal preparations results in the transfer, presumably, of the entire oligosaccharide to endogenous protein. Kinetic studies indicate that the dolichol derivatives serve as intermediates in the glycosylation of protein as follows: [Formula: see text]
The electroencephalogram in three patients with Jakob-Creutzfeldt disease showed two separate abnormalities-namely, progressive background suppression and periodic generalized synchronous triphasic sharp wave complexes which evolve to a uniform morphology and periodicity. The abnormalities, when found in the EEG of a patient in middle-age with a dementing illness, should not be confused with other periodic electroencephalographic phenomena. Since the neuropathological abnormalities of Jakob-Creutzfeldt disease are non-specific, the electroencephalogram is essential for the recognition of this disorder, although serial recordings may be necessary to establish the diagnosis. Modification of the electroencephalographic abnormalities occurs with afferent stimuli and with methylphenidate or diazepam, suggesting that the phenomenon of background suppression is independent of the presence of the periodic complexes. Modification of clinical activity with methylphenidate suggests that some degree of reversibility of function exists in this inexorably fatal disorder. Further detailed studies of the electroencephalogram in cases of Jakob-Creutzfeldt disease are indicated.
Necrotizing enterocolitis is an uncommon but dangerous disease in premature infants. Ten cases, seen over a three-year period at the Stanford University Medical Center, represented an incidence of 0.4 percent. The patients, six of whom died, derived from a general population, in contrast to the large series of patients reported in the literature in which the incidence was from 0.9 percent to 3.7 percent.(3-6)The initial symptoms-rapid respiration, periodic breathing, lethargy and irritability-were identical to those which occurred in numerous infants who had respiratory disease. Subsequent symptoms (abdominal distension, in 100 percent; vomiting, 80 percent; apneic spells, 70 percent; jaundice, 70 percent; guaic-positive stools, 60 percent) were those of nonspecific acute abdominal disease. The radiologist first made the diagnosis in 90 percent of cases. Interstitial air in the wall of the gut and the retroperitoneum, and portal vein gas were the most diagnostic radiographic features. Barium contrast studies were not helpful, and in one case led to the erroneous diagnosis of small bowel volvulus. Plain abdominal radiographs must be taken of all premature infants with symptoms of nonspecific acute abdominal disease. If the radiographs are negative, but symptoms continue, they should be repeated at frequent intervals, for early diagnosis is critical to institution of proper therapy.
Since the introduction of "staging laparotomy" (to determine the disease's stage) in assessing Hodgkin's disease, some observers have argued that lymphangiography could be safely omitted in the initial diagnostic evaluation. To test these opinions a series of 75 patients with Hodgkin's disease who had a staging laparotomy and histological correlation with lymphangiograms was reviewed. Of 16 examinations with positive results, one proved to be a false positive. Of the 14 examinations with equivocal results, one proved histologically positive. In the remaining 45 lymphangiograms, five were falsely negative. In all five of these patients abdominal lymph nodes were involved, but in areas that do not routinely opacify on lower extremity lymphangiography. The overall accuracy was 90 percent.Therapeutically, the lymphangiogram permits accurate planning for treatment by radiation therapy so that all known disease is treated and yet bone marrow is not excessively irradiated. Changes in lymph node architecture after therapy provide valuable information as to regression of the disease or signs of its early recurrence.
The increasing number of children admitted to this hospital with poisoning by tricyclic antidepressants is causing concern. Of 60 children admitted between January 1966 and July 1973, half were admitted in the last 18 months. In 60% of these patients the tricyclic compounds had been prescribed for nocturnal enuresis. One child aged 2 years and 4 months died of imipramine poisoning. It is imperative that all children with poisoning by tricyclic compounds, irrespective of the dosage, are admitted to hospital for continuous cardiac monitoring. Cardiac arrhythmias induced in children by amitriptyline and imipramine are prominent and dangerous.In the earlier years of this survey the antidepressants taken by children had usually been prescribed for adults, but recently they have been increasingly prescribed as a treatment for enuresis in children themselves. Medicine for a trivial complaint is unlikely to be regarded by parents as potentially dangerous and practitioners should therefore warn them accordingly; if, indeed, the transient effect of these potentially dangerous drugs upon the average case of bed-wetting in childhood can be justified.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (Steele et al.) has a characteristic pattern of dementia: forgetfulness, slowing of thought processes, emotional or personality changes (apathy or depression with occasional outbursts of irritability), and impaired ability to manipulate acquired knowledge. In many neurological disease states associated with subcortical pathology a similar pattern of dementia exists. The neurobehavioural changes of progressive supranuclear palsy thus typify a clinical pattern which may be referred to as subcortical dementia. The subcortical dementias have a striking clinical resemblance to the dementia which occurs after bifrontal lobe disease. However, the subcortical dementias can be clearly distinguished clinically from cortical dementias, other than frontal dementias. We propose as a tentative hypothesis that there may be common pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the subcortical dementias-in particular, disturbances of timing and activation. There are immediate practical implications of this hypothesis: drugs which have an effect on subcortical timing and activating mechanisms may be useful in the treatment of subcortical dementias.
Urea degradation was measured during 16 experiments in 13 chronic uremic patients being treated with essential amino acids or their analogues. [(14)C]Urea was injected i.v. and the clearance of labeled urea from its volume of distribution was compared with the simultaneous renal clearance of ordinary urea, which averaged 2.0 liters/day. The difference, extrarenal clearance of urea, averaged 3.1 liters/day as compared with a previously reported mean of 18 liters/day in normal subjects. Thus urea-splitting activity in the gut of uremic subjects expressed in these terms is far less than in normal individuals. Nevertheless, the amount of ammonia N formed from urea in these patients, 3.5 g/day, is not significantly different from normal, owing to their elevated plasma urea. In the same subjects, urea appearance rate was measured as the sum of urea excretion and the daily change in the urea pool. No negative correlation was noted between urea appearance and urea degradation, as might be expected if portal ammonia were being utilized for protein synthesis. However, urea production was positively correlated (r = 0.76) with urea degradation, suggesting that most of the resulting portal ammonia is converted back to urea. The results fail to support the view that degradation of urea in the gut promotes N conservation in uremic subjects maintained on low protein diets.
Fifteen patients with maturity onset type diabetes, all of whom had received insulin for periods of one to thirty-five years, were admitted to hospital and insulin treatment was discontinued. Within 24 to 48 hours each patient was given an intravenous tolbutamide test, following which all were given either diet therapy alone or diet therapy plus oral agents. If significant hyperglycemia or ketonemia resulted, insulin therapy was reinstituted. Approximately 50 percent (8 of 15) of the patients showed improvement in fasting blood sugar levels following discontinuation of insulin. It was not possible to distinguish the insulin independent from the insulin dependent group using such criteria as age, sex, degree of overweight, insulin dosage, duration of diabetes or duration of insulin therapy. However, using the intravenous tolbutamide test it was possible to differentiate between the two groups. Those who did not require insulin responded to intravenous tolbutamide with a glucose decrease greater than 10 percent from the initial value. The insulin dependent group had either no glucose decrease or a rise in blood glucose following intravenous administration of tolbutamide.
Small bowel tumors are unusual lesions exhibiting nonspecific clinical features often diagnosed at an advanced stage. In the cases studied at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania nearly all the 32 patients with malignancies were symptomatic whereas in the 34 patients with benign lesions the condition was discovered as an incidental finding in about half of the patients. Weight loss, palpable mass or anemia usually indicated malignancy. Small bowel radiography was the most useful diagnostic aid in the present series. While the etiology of these lesions is unknown, villous adenomas probably bear a relationship to carcinoma. The association between chronic regional enteritis and small bowel tumors is unestablished but suggestive. An analysis of reported series reveals a disproportionate incidence of additional primary tumors in patients with small bowel neoplasms. Surgical extirpation is indicated for curative treatment. In the present series, resection in hope of cure was carried out in 25 of 32 malignant tumors resulting in eight five-year survivals. One of these latter lived nine years with disseminated malignant carcinoid reflecting the occasional indolent course of this tumor.
A historical review of work bearing on the rationale for hepatic artery ligation in the treatment of malignant disease in the liver is presented, particularly the early work showing that malignant disease of the liver is supplied primarily by the arterial circulation and not by the portal. A review is presented of some clinical reports dealing with the effectiveness of this approach and our own limited experience with three cases presented briefly. The major emphasis is placed on the metabolic, arteriographic, microscopic and clinical studies on one patient with the carcinoid syndrome who was followed carefully over several years, treated initially by hepatic resection, later by chemotherapy and finally by hepatic dearterialization as the tumor re-grew and the carcinoid syndrome again became incapacitating. Clinical remissions was documented by changes in the excretion of 5-hydroxyindole- acetic acid and by comparison between pre- and post-op arteriography and by microscopic sections taken at re-exploration for drainage of a necrotic area in the liver.
JUNCTIONAL STRUCTURES FORMED BY TWO PARTS OF THE PLASMA MEMBRANE OF THE SAME CARDIAC MUSCLE CELL WERE OBSERVED IN VENTRICULAR MYOCARDIUM OF: a) patients with neoplasms, aortic valvular disease or idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis and b) dogs subjected to prolonged normothermic anoxic cardiac arrest. Most of these structures had features of desmosomes; other, more complex structures had components with features of desmosomes, fasciae adherentes and nexuses, and, therefore, resembled intercalated discs. These intracytoplasmic junctions were localized to: a) the peripheral cytoplasm at the sides or ends of cells, b) narrow invaginations of plasma membranes, c) narrow zones of deep, broad plasmalemmal invaginations and d) narrow branches of T tubules. In patients with idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis or aortic valvular disease and in the dogs subjected to anoxic cardiac arrest, intracytoplasmic junctions were observed in hypertrophied or degenerated muscle cells which were located in areas of fibrosis and which showed loss of contact with adjacent cells. In patients with neoplasms, intracyto-plasmic junctions were found in degenerated cells which were located in areas of interstitial edema and which also showed loss of contact with adjacent cells. Our observations suggest that remodeling of cell surfaces following loss of intercellular contact is the most likely mechanism of formation of intracytoplasmic junctions.
An isolated deficiency of pituitary gonadotropins was demonstrated in six 46 XY males, 22 to 36 years of age, with and without anosmia. Undetectable or low levels of serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) clearly separated hypogonadotropic from normal adult males. Chronic (8-12 wk) administration of clomiphene citrate caused no increase in serum FSH or LH in gonadotropin-deficient subjects. However, the administration of synthetic luteinizing hormone releasing factor (LRF) resulted in the appearance of serum LH and, to a lesser degree, serum FSH in three subjects tested. While levels of plasma testosterone were significantly lower in gonadotropin-deficient subjects, plasma androstenedione and dehydroepiandrosterone were in a range similar to that of age-matched normal men. Treatment with human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) increased levels of plasma testosterone to normal adult male values in all gonadotropin-deficient subjects. Cessation of treatment with HCG resulted in the return of plasma testosterone to low, pretreatment levels. That HCG therapy with resultant normal levels of plasma testosterone may somehow stimulate endogenous gonadotropin secretion in gonadotropin-deficient subjects was not evident. The adult male levels of serum FSH and LH after LRF, and plasma testosterone after HCG, confirm pituitary and Leydig cell responsiveness in these subjects.
The patient was the fourth of affected male siblings. Cortisol (1.3 micrograms per cent), cortisone (9.6), and corticosterone sulfate (0.1) concentrations were low in cord blood. The larger amount of cortisone may have originated from maternal cortisol. Aldosterone was undetectable in cord blood, indicating lack of fetal secretion or maternofetal transfer. Unexpectedly normal concentrations of 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC) sulfate in cord serum could represent maternal transfer of DOC, with subsequent fetal sulfurylation. Low estrone and estradiol concentrations in maternal and cord serum were consistent with absence of the fetal adrenals. Despite the low levels of the steroids, the propositus had a normal lecithin-sphingomyelin ratio at 38 weeks' gestation. Circulatory insufficiency developed within half an hour after birth and responded to gluco- and mineralocorticoid therapy. The three untreated siblings died between 14 and 67 hours of age. It is evident that early recognition of this condition may be lifesaving.
Nine black children with lymphoepithelioma, a rare malignancy of childhood, are the subject of this report. Unique clinical features included tender cervical lymphadenopathy with torticollis, trismus, epistaxis, and change in voice quality. A nasopharyngeal mass was demonstrable in seven children on careful examination, but none was resectable. Treatment with radiation alone or radiation plus cyclophosphamide resulted in complete tumor regression in eight of the nine children. Local recurrence or distant metastases occurred in four within 10 months, two of whom responded to additional radiation plus cyclophosphamide or adriamycin. At present, four children are alive without disease for periods of seven to 78 months, two are alive for seven to 53 months and are in remission from recurrent disease, and three have died with distant metastases. Freedom from disease for one year was associated with a favorable prognosis. Adjuvant chemotherapy appears warranted in view of the high incidence of local recurrence and distant metastases.
The effect of purified proflavine and light exposure was assessed in rabbits whose eyes had been infected with one of two strains of herpesvirus. In comparing proflavine-light and placebo-light treatment, 0.1% proflavine administered twice daily for 5 days had a significant effect in suppressing herpetic eye disease, but 0.05% proflavine was less effective. In addition to being effective in infections with either virus strain, the 0.1% proflavine also suppressed intensity of corneal epithelial ulceration and stromal opacity in animals pretreated with subconjunctival corticosteroids to produce more severe disease. Proflavine or idoxuridine (IDU) alone or in combination showed no differences in suppressing herpetic ocular disease, but all were significantly more effective than placebo. Virus recovery rates were approximately the same from eyes treated with proflavine, IDU, or placebo, indicating that viral replication in the cornea and conjunctiva was not completely suppressed by either of the antiviral drugs alone or in combination.
The authors review the controversies that still continue concerning electrocauterization of the uterine cervix. They emphasize the value of colposcopy in the evaluation of the cervix. This examination is indispensable in selecting the cases for treatment: ectropion and benign malpighian dysplasias are clear indications for cauterization. Contraindications and technical problems are discussed. The indications are given for bipolar biactive, and bipolar monoactive electrocauterization, respectively, or for electroresection by means of a metallic loop. The different cicatrization times after electrocauterization are reviewed as well as the possibility of sequelae: in certain cases sequelae can be more or less avoided by previous therapeutic precautions and by careful attention to the duration of cauterization. Cauterization of the uterine cervix by cryotherapy seems to be worthy of particular consideration: the first results are reported. It seems to be simpler to use than diathermocauterization and in the great majority of cases the results seem to have been good.
Transitional-cell carcinoma of the bladder has been induced by chronic oral administration of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) in C3H/He mice, and successfully transplanted in syngeneic animals. Evaluation of the effectiveness of several chemotherapeutic agents on this tumor indicated that cyclophosphamide and cis-diammine dichloroplatinum (CACP) significantly inhibited tumor growth and prolonged the median survival time of tumor-bearing animals. When administered before formation of palpable tumors, cyclophosphamide completely prevented growth of the implants in 100 per cent of animals; when administered after the growth of larger, palpable tumors, cyclophosphamide inhibited tumor growth in all animals and produced a "cure" in 45 per cent. Combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and CACP was more effective than either drug used as a single agent. Adriamycin, dactinomycin, and mitomycin C administered individually exhibited limited activity while 5-fluorouracil, CCNU (1-2 choloroethyl-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea), BCNU (1,3-bis [2-chloroethyl]-1-nitrosourea), methrotrexate, and hydroxyurea were ineffective against this tumor. The consistent growth pattern, the histologic similarity to bladder cancer in human beings, and the successful propagation in syngeneic animals, make the FANFT-induced tumor a suitable model for chemotherapy of bladder carcinoma in human beings.
Post-mortem brain material from control and Parkinson's disease patients was examined to elucidate further the neurochemistry of this disease and to determine the mechanism of action of L-dopa as a therapeutic agent. The activities of L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (dopa D), tyrosine hydroxylase, monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyl transferase were examined; in addition the tissue levels of dopa, 3-O-methyldopa, dopamine (DA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were determined. In the non-dopa-treated Parkinsonian patients, the greatest decreases were detected for striatal DA and dopa D, with homovanillic acid and tyrosine hydroxylase levels showing a lesser change. The activities of monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyl transferase in the striatal nuclei were not different from the controls. The putamen was consistently the most severely affected region. Dopa and 3-O-methyldopa were detectable in all brain areas only in those patients treated with L-dopa shortly before death. The mean concentrations of DA in the striatum of these patients were 1) 9 to 15 times higher than those in non-dopa-treated patients, 2) related to the time before death of the last dose of L-dopa and 3) greater in the striatum of patients clinically classified as "good responders" as compared to "poor responders." Although L-dopa therapy increased homovanillic acid levels in all brain areas, a preferential increase was observed in the striatum. It was concluded that L-dopa's principal therapeutic effects in Parkinson's disease are consistent with its transformation to DA in the striatum.
In the albino rat, the evolvement of myocardial necrosis induced by a single injection of ISO was accompanied by a fall in total NE. Pretreatment with propranolol and pargyline protected against ISO-induced necrosis and myocardial hypertrophy, but did not influence the ISO-induced depletion of NE stores. The depletion of NE stores is not due to impairment in synthesis or increased intraneuronal metabolism of NE since, in ISO-treated rats, neither cardiac tyrosine hydroxylase activity nor MAO activity was altered. The decrease in endogenous NE is not due to a defect in the storage of NE. The ability of myocardium to take up and store NE returned to normal within 48 hours, whereas endogenous levels returned to normal within 5 days, even in the presence of demonstrable necrosis. Thus, there is lack of correlation between chemical and morphological changes, since catecholamine depletion occurred in the absence of morphologically demonstrable tissue injury, and the function of the adrenergic neuron returns to normal in the presence of demonstrable necrosis.
The clinical course of 40 patients with polyarteritis was reviewed to determine prognostic factors and response to treatment. The first three months were the most critical to survival. Survivorship was 57 per cent at five years. Older age of onset, involvement of skeletal muscle and presence of peripheral neuropathy weighted against a satisfactory outcome. Cutaneous vasculitis was associated with a more benign course. Myocardial disease, central nervous system involvement, or hypertension were not invariably poor prognostic factors. Muscle biopsies, even in the absence of clinical involvement, were a useful diagnostic procedure, and renal angiograms were found to be a valuable alternative to renal biopsy. An unequivocal distinction on clinical and histopathologic criteria could not be made among polyarteritis nodosa, hypersentitivity angiitis, and allergic granulomatosis. Australia antigenemia occurred in six per cent of patients. Although evaluation of therapy was difficult, data from this study did not show a superiority of high vs. low dosage of corticosteroids in suppressing active disease.
Dopamine is a direct-acting catecholamine with a short half-life that has many advantages in treating visceral hypoperfusion states such as shock and refractory heart failure. Unlike other inotropic drugs, dopamine directly dilates the mesenteric, renal, and cerebral vessels and redirects blood flow to essential viscera. This dopaminergic effect is prominent with doses of 100-700 mug/min in adults and is attenuated by phenothiazines and haloperidol. At doses of 700-1400 mug/min, dopamine also has a significant beta-adrenergic, inotropic effect, increasing myocardial contractility. The inotropic effect is equivalent to that of isoproterenol, epinephrine, and norepinephrine, but tachycardia, tachyarrhythmias, and angina may be less frequent with dopamine. In doses greater than 1400 mug/min, dopamine is a vasoconstrictor with pressor effects usually equivalent to that of norepinephrine. Dopamine dilates pupils, does not dilate bronchi, and does not shunt blood from viscera to skeletal muscles as does isoproterenol. Because dopamine increases myocardial contractility, selectively redistributes perfusion to essential viscera and allows a pharmacologic titration of effect, it is a logical first-choice catecholamine for treatment of shock and refractory heart failure.
The authors report on the drug benorylate which is available in the Federal Republic under the name of Benortan (4-acetamidophenyl-2-acetoxybenzoat). Numerous examinations have shown that it is well tolerated by mouth and that it has beneficial clinical effects with few side effects. Benorylate is a neutral, fat-soluble, water-insoluble substance which upon absorption is almost completely hydrolyzed into salicylate and paracetamol. 6 patients with classical seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and with a highly active synovialitis of one or both knee joints not previously treated received 4 g of a 40% benorylate suspension orally twice daily over a period of 9-14 days. On different days at exactly determined times of drug administration blood, and on the day of synovectomy synovial fluid and synovial tissue, were taken and frozen to - 70 degrees C and subsequently examined as to the content of salicylate, paracetamol, and unchanged benorylate. The plasma levels of salicylate and paracetamol were generally distinctly higher than the concentrations of these metabolites in the synovial fluid. Benorylate which is practically not detectable in blood is found in the synovial tissue and is detectable in greatest quantities in the most inflamed synovial villi. Benorylate can probably penetrate into the synovial membrane like its metabolites salicylate and paracetamol; it remains, however, to be examined whether the metabolites are distributed differently in different synovial areas (active inflamed and unattacked synovial tissue, respectively) in the same way as benorylate per se.
Injections of carrageenin (1,25 mg/kg i.v.) from the 1st to the 3rd day and then each 2nd or 3rd day inhibited paw swelling in adjuvant arthritis of the rat during the time of treatment. Injections from the 11th to the 15th day were ineffective. The level of plasma kininogen was slightly decreased but the total complement serum level was significantly lowered. 2,5 and 3 mg carrageenin/kg respectively were toxic after repeated injections. After a single administration the levels of plasma kininogen and of total serum complement were decreased by 50% although paw swelling was not affected. Pentosane polysulfoester (25 mg/kg i.v.) did not influence paw swelling despite daily administration from the 1st to the 17th day. Heparin (10 000 IE/kg i.v.) was likewise ineffective. Single or repeated injections of compound 48/80 (0,125-0,5 mg/kg i.v.; 1-5 mg/kg i.p.; 3-6 mg/kg s.c.), reserpine (0,2 mg/kg i.p.), cyproheptadine (5 mg/kg i.v.), bromolysergic acid diethylamide (2 x 2 mg/kg i.v.) or metiamide (10 mg/kg i.v.) were without effect on paw swelling. Neither did compound 48/80 effect the complement serum level. Daily administration of chloropromazine (4-10 mg/kg p.o.) or of promethazine (10-15 mg/kg s.c. or p.o.) inhibited paw swelling in the first phase of adjuvant arthritis but not in the second one. The soybean trypsin inhibitor (15 mg/kg i.v.) inhibited paw swelling significantly up to the 4th day, the Kunitz inhibitor (25 000 E/kg i.v.) was ineffective. The content of prostaglandin E of the inflamed paws was increased threefold in both phases of arthritis. The results are discussed with regard to the putative role of mediators of inflammation (histamine, serotonin, kinins, prostaglandins, lysosomal enzymes, lymphokines, complement).
Several T. brucei-subgroup strains isolated from game were investigated with the blood incubation infectivity test (BIIT) and in human volunteers. Original isolates and their clones derivatives were tested. In order to check the validity of the BIIT, volunteer tested clones were used under modified BIIT conditions. Inoculation of different trypanosome strains into volunteers yielded positive parasitaemia for original isolates from lion, hyaena, and Coke's hartebeest. Changing antibody titers during the course of infection in the volunteers were checked with the indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFT). The BIIT WAs reliable (consistently positive) for cloned T. b. rhodesiense. When testing T. b. brucei, the BIIT results depended on the number of incubated parasites and on the parasitaemia peak number the tested trypanosomes derived from. It was further shown that the in vivo part of the BIIT is actually essential for the complete neutralization of T. b. brucei induced by the action of human plasma. Tests with trypanosomes originating from experimentally mixed T. b. rhodesiense and brucei infections gave inconsistent results. On the other hand, pure populations mixed in vitro-prior to incubation for BIIT-revealed results depending on the proportion of the 2 species: up to 20% T. b. rhodesiense gave negative, higher concentrations consistently positive results.
Necrotizing enterocolitis of the new-born has an anatomical definition: lesions discovered during surgery or on post-mortem examination. Progress in neanatal shock reveals facts already known in the adult and in experimental medicine: concept of preferential and circulatory by-pass. A considerable decrease in blood flow is seen in the latter during shock; this shock is sometimes not important. Mesenteric circulation is the best example. This syndrome should therefore be included in the major vascular changes of neonatal period. Vascular and infectious enteropathy is a broader term which seems more appropriate because of aetiological and therapeutic implications. The aetiology should be considered as a sum of several factors varying from one patient to another (multifactorial disease). The circulatory component remains very important. Its severity depends on whether or not it is treated. Four notions should be defined: -- Census of population of subjects with "high risk" of vascular and infectious enteropathy (score trial); -- Isolation of clinical pictures corresponding to a medical or surgical stage; Grouping of elements for immediate and long term prognosis; -- Grouping of elements for immediate and long term prognosis; -- Proposal of preventive treatment to the "high risk" patients (surgery; continuons parenteral and enteral feeding are intientionally left out in this paper). The interest of this concept of the disease is to eradicate severe forms as in the neonatal idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome where a similar concept was adopted.
The diagnostic and prognostic reliability of lipoprotein-X (Lp-X) in demonstrating or ruling out cholestasis has been evaluated in a group of 80 patients with diseases of the liver and/or the biliary tracts, and in 103 subjects with various other diseases. The results of Lp-X detection were compared with the so-called "enzymes indicating cholestasis": alkaline phosphatase, leucine arylamidase, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. Where possible a histologic specimen of the liver was obtained. The correlation between Lp-X and "enzymes indicating cholestasis" was satisfactory in more than 90% of cases. When compared with the histologic findings, Lp-X proved to be more reliable than the enzymes. Despite this fact, Lp-X did not show absolute specifity in the detection of cholestasis as there were several negative results in cases with histologically proven cholestasis. Furthermore, the differentiation of intra- and extrahepatic cholestasis was not possible on the basis of Lp-X. In the control group of 103 patients with other than hepatobiliary diseases, a positive Lp-X result was found in 3 cases. Further investigations in these three patients revealed that primarily unsuspected hepatobiliary disease could not be ruled out. In the follow-up of a hepatobiliary disease the transition of Lp-X to negative indicates a trend towards improvement of cholestasis 1-2 weeks earlier than the enzymes mentioned above.
The single most characteristic morphological feature in I-cell disease (ICD) is the accumulation of membrane-bound vacuoles in mesenchymal cells (mainly fibroblasts). No true storage can be documented in those vacuoles. That their contents could have been dissolved during fixation or embedding remains however a possibility. Remnants consisting of a few lamellar arrays and of small amounts of fibrillo-granular material are too scarce for histochemical characterization. In hepatocytes large cells in the white pulp of the spleen and in myocardial fibers, vacuoles with fixative insoluble contents have been discovered; they are nowhere very abundant and their specificity is questionable. Because the affected fibroblastic elements represent a small fraction in any organ, most secondary biochemical abnormalities are expected to be detectable only in purely fibroblastic tissues. Our pathological study contributes to the understanding of some of the clinical features characteristic of ICD and stresses major morphological differences between ICD and the many diseases classified as mucopolysaccharidoses and mucolipidoses.
4-Methyl pyrazole (4-MP, a specific inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase) reduced ethanol elimination by 30-50% and completely removed the ethanol-induced inhibition of galactose elimination in 2 control subjects. Ethanol elimination was accelerated in 2 alcoholics with adequate nutrition, but the effect of 4-MP was comparable to that in controls. In 2 other alcoholic subjects, who reported poor nutritional intake, intermediate rates of ethanol elimination were observed and 4-MP had almost no effect on ethanol or galactose elimination. These results suggest that alcohol abuse may result in an increased contribution to ethanol elimination by pathways other than that involving alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and that the decreased contribution from ADH, possibly potentiated by inadequate nutrition, may diminish the ethanol-induced shift in the NAD-coupled redox state. Since liver damage produced by alcohol abuse is believed to be related to changes from the normal redox state caused by ethanol, these results may explain why alcoholic liver damage is uncommon in alcoholics living on a marginal diet. Since 4-MP effectively eliminates the ethanol-induced shift in the redox state, a therapeutic trial with 4-MP in alcoholics with a high risk for liver disease is indicated.
Following four generations of inbred mating (brother-sister) in three direct lineages of CBA strain mice, sterility appeared which from that generation forward became more frequent. The genital organs in animals of both sexes were altered. There was a noticeable occurrence of cysts in the ovaries of female animals already following the third month; in mice approximately one year of age this condition was followed by cystic glandular hyperplasia of the endometrium, sometimes complicated by disturbances in blood circulation, inflammation or even malignancy. In some female animals, manifesting, due to cysts, completely degenerated ovaries, the rest of the genital system was severely atrophic. Male animals frequently showed severe atrophy of the seminiferous epithelium along with preserved interstitial cells and hypertrophic seminal vesicles. These pathological changes represent an independent nosologic unit, for which the label "genital dyscrinism" has been proposed. The authors have considered an endocrine mechanism as the possible cause of these pathological changes which are presumed to be genetically conditioned.
When pathophysiological and pathogenetic aspects of hypertension are taken into consideration with special regard to diabetes mellitus the exhaustion of the "insulin enhancement" within the cerebrovisceral functional systems (Baumann) are discussed and the authors enter possible connections of diabetes mellitus to the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. After explanation of the diabetogenic and antidiabetogenic pharmacodynamic qualities of the antihypertensive drugs adequate therapeutic recommendations are proposed summarized in a figure. The authors conclude that for the present antihypertensive therapy in diabetics taking into consideration the references reported on there are sufficient possibilities of treatment for all degrees of severity of hypertension. Such preparations as Rausedan, Disotat, Dopegyt appear as particularly suitable; moreover, the beta receptor blockers, Haemiton, Depressan as well as Guanitil and Pargylin prove to be possible or without disadvantage, respectively. Especially when diuretics are described an exact control of the metabolism should be carried out.
The slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis (SRS-A) belongs to a group of substances which produce a slow progressive and sustained contraction of some smooth muscles. It is released by the interaction of the antigen with certain antibodies; in humans through the interaction with the IgE or reagine. The SRS-A is a heat-labile sustance, chemically unstable, of an acid character, with a low molecular weight. It is not destroyed by the action of proteolytic enzymes. Its molecular structure has not yet been elucidated. It is not found accumulated in the cells but synthesized and released by some white cells mainly by sensitized mast cells and polymorphonuclear leukocytes after challenging with the specific antigen. The SRS-A is a powerful pharmacodynamic agent, it produces contraction of the bronchial smooth muscle in doses of nanograms. It probably plays a predominant role in the physiopathology of asthma. The chain of chemical reactions elicited by antigen-antibody interaction does not end with the release of SRS-A and the other mediators (histamine, eosinophil chemotactic factor of anaphylaxis, ECF-A), on the contrary, these mediators especially SRS-A induce the release of prostaglandins of type E (PGE1 and PGE2) which produce bronchodilatation and inhibit the release of SRS-A itself, perhaps being a selfregulating mechanism. The PGF2a, on the other hand, produces bronchoconstriction. The release of SRS-A is also inhibited by the action of diethyl-carbamazine and especially by sodium chromoglicate and compound AH-7725. From the biochemical point of view it is found that the antigen Igells, a serine esterase, initiating several chemical reactions whose consequence is a decrease in the cAMP concentration. This reduction in the cAMP intracellular level is followed by synthesis and excretion of the SRS-A as well as by the aggregation of the microtubules and excretion of the stored histamine. The PGE (1 and 2) acting on one type of membrane receptor and the beta-agonist catecholamines on another produce a common phenomenon: the activation of the adenylcyclase whcih produces the increase of the concentration of cAMP and inhibits the release of mediators of the anapylactic reaction. The parasympathetic system through its chemical mediator acethylcholine, by a mechanism in whcih adenycyclase is not involved is also capable of stimulating the release of histamine and SRS-A. Something similar happens with PGF2a. In conclusion, self-regulatory mechansims for the release of mediators of the anaphylactic reactions may exist. The "perpetuation" of an asthamtic reaction would signify a failure of these self-regulatory mechanisms due to, for example, to a temporary block of the beta-adrenergic receptors, overstimulation of the alfa-receptors or insufficient production of PGE or a transformation of the PGE in PGF.
Out of 543 tracheotomized patients, 227 survived and 12 of them developed a tracheal stenosis syndrome (5,28 p. 100) including: 3 supra-ostial stenosis, 1 ostial and supra-ostial stenosis, 1 ostial stenosis, 3 intermediate stenosis and 4 distal stenosis. In two cases, the stenosis was found out during the removal of the cannula and in the other cases from 3 days to 8 months after the decannulation. The deffered treatment consisted in an anti-inflammatory medical treatment treatment (one case), in a permanent dilation with an Albouker tube (two cases), and in a resection of the stenosed tracheal part plus an anastomosis. Good results were obtained in 9 cases including the recovery of a satisfactory tracheal diameter. Because of a recurrence of the stenosis after resection and anastomosis, it was necessary, in two cases, to resort to another resection and, upon another occasion, to place a permanent cannulation. Finally, in one case, 2 Rethi operations were necessary to get a sub-normal tracheal diameter. From these facts, it emerges that tracheal stenosis are less important if, during the tracheotomy, a partial resection of the tracheal wall is effected (rather than an inverted U flap folded back at the bottom) together with the putting in of a cannula equipped with an elongated cylindrical cuff requiring a less important filing-up pressure (although just as efficient as far as tightness is concerned).
Six patients, not previously treated, with classical seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and highly active synovitis of one or both knee joints were treated with 4 g of 40% benorylate suspension twice daily for a period of 9--14 days prior to synovectomy. Blood samples were taken at scheduled times during administration of the drug. At operation, synovial fluid and tissue samples were taken and their salicylate, paracetamol and benorylate content measured. Plasma levels of salicylate and paracetamol were, in general, significantly higher than the concentration of these metabolites in the synovial fluid. Benorylate was found in the synovial tissues concentrated especially in the highly inflamed synovial villi. It is probable that benorylate and its metabolites penetrate the synovia but further studies are needed to determine if the metabolites are concentrated in the different synovial cell layers in the same way as benorylate itself. It is possible that part of the clinical effect of benorylate is due to its presence in the synovial tissue and that it has a direct effect in vivo on the synovial membrane. It is also possible that the pharmacokinetic properties of benorylate permit it to enter cell layers inaccessible to its metabolites.
Twenty patients with definite or classical rheumatoid arthritis and chronic knee effusions were each given an oral dose of 4 g benorylate as the 40% suspension. Synovial fluid and plasma samples were obtained up to 9 hours after drug administration and assayed for their salicylate and benorylate content. A mean peak benorylate plasma level of 2.18 +/- 0.19 mug/ml occurred 30 min after drug administration but declined rapidly and benorylate was virtually undetectable in the plasma 90 min later. The mean peak benorylate synovial fluid level of 0.74 +/- 0.21 mug/ml occurred 3 hours after drug administration but the concentration remained steady for at least a further 9 hours. A mean peak plasma salicylate level of 119 +/- 14.2 mug/ml and mean peak synovial fluid salicylate level of 78 +/- 13.6 mug/ml occurred 3 hours after benorylate administration. Both levels declined slowly over some hours. This study shows that benorylate per se readily enters the synovial fluid in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and continues to accumulate there even when undetectable in the plasma. It is possible that the lipophilic nature of the benorylate molecule facilitates its uptake by the inflamed synovial tissue.
Regional enteritis (Crohn's disease) and ulcerative rectocolitis, both "non specific inflammatory diseases of the bowel", might be diseases with a common etiology but with clinical features corresponding to a different tissular response to a noxious factor. Both diseases are however characterized by distinct clinical, radiological, histological peculiarities; evolution also is different, as appears from the rarity of malignant degeneration in Crohn's disease and its frequence in ulcerative colitis; a psychological support seems to be classical in ulcerative colitis but is on the contrary unusual in regional ileitis. Besides the interference of psychological factors in the outbreak of an ulcerative colitis, besides the infectious and genetic theories, the immunological theory appears as one of the most interesting and promising. In a significant percentage of cases of ulcerative colitis, anticolon antibodies are evidenced, which exhibit a crossed reaction with bacterial antigens, especially with those of Escherichia coli Besides this humoral immunity a cellular immunity exists also: lymphocytes of patients with ulcerative colitis behave as a toxic agent towards colic tissue cultures; this cytotoxicity parallels the course of the disease and provides an explanation for the sometimes dramatic therapeutic effects observed after administration of immunosuppressive drugs and antilymphocytic serum. Moreover, colic antigen can block this cytotoxicity; the immunologically active portion of this antigen may be isolated and its administration in patients with ulcerative colitis may perhaps induce a specific immunosuppression and influence the evolution of the disease.
Whatever the etiology of pulmonary edema, i.e. increase in intrapulmonary water, edema passes through three, moreover intricate phases: 1- intracellular edema clearly visible in the type 1 pneumocyte. This intracellular edema appears at the same time as: 2- interstitial edema; that which appears when: 3- numerous vesicules of pinocytosis and separation of the capillary endothelial cells account for it; 4- intra-alveolar edema itself appears later and corresponds to the major clinical phase of pulmonary edema. There is nothing surprising about this as the cellular functions of pneumocytes are impervious as can be shown for example by studies carried out with tracers. This intracellular alveolar edema seems to have two different aspects depending on whether the experimental conditions create an acute or sub-acute pathology. In the acute form, the edema is poor in lipids and in proteins. In the sub-acute of chronic forms, it is on the contrary very rich in them. 5-In the last phase, a veritable desquamation of the pneumocytes then of the endothelial cells is produced which is very frequently lethal. If survival occurs, two sorts of lesions are found: -colonisation of the alveolar surface with type II pneumocytes; - occurrence of possible intersitial fibrosis. The remarkable fact is that such lesions are visible in a more or less identical manner in all cases of pulmonary edema, whether they be hemodynamic or lesional. The morphology does not confirm this physiopathological distinction which is moreover questionable as all pulmonary edema become lesional sooner or later.
The radiological appearances of non-hemodynamic, lesional edema are univoco; interstitial-type pictures, alveolar-type pictures, either successively or combined, in terms of the intensity or duration of the alveolo-capillary membrane lesions. Inflation of the interstitial medium is reflected by the appearance of Kerley B lines, haziness of the vascular contours and sometimes an axillary bordering line due to subpleural edema. Capillary congestion with increase in permeability especially to proteins and the tearing of connective tissue explains these pictures. In the following stage, edema is alveolar with hazy diffuse, unorganised and confluent opacities. These opacities can predominate in the bases, or take on a butterfly-wing distribution. At this stage atelectatic lesions can be superadded due to inactivation of surfactant. Finally, in the later periods the appearance of interstitial pulmonary fibrosis with fibrinous deposits and fibroblastic proliferation can be noted. The chest X-ray is the objective reflection of the disorders; in enables the making of a diagnosis, and the drawing up of a complete check of the lesions and supervision of its course.
This syndrome is characterised by changes in the pulmonary capillary bed allowing filtration of edema fluid rich in proteins. It provokes an alveolo-capillary block and a fall in compliance. Positive diagnosis is envisaged from the clinical circumstances implicating a change in the pulmonary capillaries (blast, shock, microemboli). The fall in pO2 is early and intense. The fall in compliance is later and leads to hypoventilation necessitating ventilatory assistance. Diffuse radiological opacification of both pulmonary fields is characteristics, in its appearance and also in its prolonged course. In the differential diagnosis one should try to eliminate acute pulmonary edema and refractory hypoxia of bronchogenic origin. Prognosis of the condition is fixed by the course (of the pO2, of possible hypoventilation, of the radiological pictures), under treatment. Although persistance of the syndrome for more than one or two weeks is of bad prognosis, cases have been known to progress for more than three weeks and to heal leaving no after-effects. The syndrome can be complicated by cardiac incompetence, organic renal failure, which again aggravate the prognosis.
The alveolar wall on contact with air can be compared with a biological air-liquide interface. As with all interfaces, there are therefore superficial forces which tend to reduce the surface to a minimum. In the case of a pulmonary alveolus with a spherical surface, these forces are at the origin of an internal pressure excess dependent on the radius of the alveolus and on the superficial tension related to the nature of the interface. Owing to the disparity in the alveolar radii, under these conditions the smaller alveoli would collapse to the benefit of a larger one, the pressure being lower and lower in the latter. In addition, at any time in the respiratory cycles, this surpression must be negligible in order to avoid rupture of the equilibrium of the forces exerted on the alveolar wall. Consequently, it is necessary that this air-alveolar wall interface should have a superficial tension on the one hand variable with the surface, and on the other hand always very low. Owing to the demonstration of large concentrations of phospholipid in this area, it can be thought that a superficial film is substituted at the air-biological liquid interface and owing to this fact effectively has superficial properties necessary for alveolar stability. The "surface-tensio-active" effect of this film lead to the giving of the name of "surfactant" to these constituents as a whole.
Lesional pulmonary edema caused by substances which are directly caustic for the gastrointestinal pathways (strong acids and bases, inhaled vomit) are opposed by their immediate and long-term gravity with those due to cardiotropic medicamentatous toxins or volemic overloading which lead to curable pulmonary edema. Material and human factors, in favour of accidental intoxication are compensated for by the fact that many toxins produce vapours which are strongly irritant for the upper respiratory pathways: this prevents prolonged exposure and therefore wards off edema. Drug intoxication by ingestion can lead to pulmonary edema by relative or absolute volemic overload, by allergic accidents or by immaturity of the enzyme degradation systems. It seems to us that the notions of "neurological" and "metabolic" toxic edema should be abandoned. In lesional edema the treatment is that of the acute respiratory failure. The combination of pethidine, promethazine, and chlorpromazine gives good immediate results. Owing to careful follow-up, hemodynamic pulmonary edema should most frequently be avoided.
Salicylamide glucuronide (SAMG) in 0-6 and 6-12 hours-urine specimens was determined after oral administration of salicylamide in 7 normal volunteers (NV), in 51 cases of various liver diseases and hyperbilirubinemias, and in 19 cases after drug administration, to predict the in vivo drug metabolism in man and its change by drugs. Maximal glucuronide formation was obtained by 1.0 g of salicylamide administered to NV; thus, this dosage was used in the present study. SAMG as percent of total salicylamide, the percent of SAMG, from 0-6 hours-urine specimens was high and constant in NV (71.3 +/- 8.3 (Mean +/- S.D.)). 0-0.08% of the total salicylamide was confirmed as free salicylamide in 0-12 hours-urine specimens of NV. The percent of SAMG of 0-6 hours-urine specimens was 57.2 +/- 8.6 in acute hepatitis, 66.6 +/- 10.9 in chronic hepatitis, and 48.6 +/- 10.7 in liver cirrhosis (mean +/- S.D.). Free salicylamide increased slightly in liver diseases. Serum bilirubin levels tended to be inversely correlated with the percent of SAMG. In most cases of Gilbert's syndrome, the percent of SAMG remained at a normal level. The percent of SAMG in cases with unconjugated hyperbilirubinemias of other geneses were almost within normal limits. Bucolome and phenobarbital increased the percent of SAMG in patients with various liver diseases. After rifampicin or phenytoin administration, the percent of SAMG of the patients with lung tuberculosis or epilepsy did not surpass that of NV.
The possible immunological significance of the different kinds of cells participating in the inflammatory reaction in cerebrospinal infections is to be considered. Presence of plasma cells and occasional perivenous microglial seams in early stages of the neurotropic virus diseases must be regarded as immunological manifestations. The brainstem nuclei are sites of predilection both in entero- and in arbovirus diseases. The aetiologically different neurotropic virus diseases obtain their individual character from the involvement of certain neurones. Neural pathways are to be taken into consideration mainly for the propagation of enteroviruses, but may have a part also in the propagation of arboviruses. With massive invasion by highly cytopathogenic viruses inflammatory reaction may fail to appear in the immature nervous tissue. Some encephalitides, of both viral and non-viral aetiology, in which the prevalence of plasma cells in the infiltrations bears evidence of an intense immune process, may be interpreted as immunologically determined late diseases.
One hundred and nineteen episodes of accelerated ventricular rhythm (less than 125/min) were noted in 37 patinets with acute myocardial infarction during a 1 year period. The incidence was 12.7 per cent. Twenty-seven episodes of fast ventricular tachycardia (less than 125/min) were noted in 16 of these patients. Eighteen patients had anterior myocardial infarction and 19 inferior myocardial infarction. The mechanism of onset of accelerated ventricular rhythm was classified as escape in 65 episodes. Ventricular premature beats were noted close to episodes of accelerated ventricular rhythm in 31 patients and fast ventricular tachycardia in 14 patients. The morphology of accelerated ventricular rhythm was similar to the ventricular premature beats in 27 patients and similar to the fast ventricular tachycardia in In 11 patinets the morphology of ventricular premature beats, accelerated ventricular rhythm and fast ventricular tachycardia were all the same. In six patients the coupling time of the ventricular premature beats and the onset of the accelerated ventricular rhythm were the same. In seven patients the morphology of the accelerated ventricular rhythm and fast ventricular tachycardia were the same, and the rate of the accelerated ventricular rhythm was exactly half that of the fast ventricular tachycardia. There were three deaths due to shock and heart failure. Three episodes of fast ventricular tachycardia progressed to ventricular fibrillation and were successfully cardioverted. It is concluded that accelerated ventricular rhythm and fast ventricular tachycardia were all the same. In six patients the coupling time of the ventricular premature beats and the onset of the accelerated ventricular rhythm were the same. In seven patients the morphology of the accelerated ventricular rhythm and fast ventricular tachycardia were the same, and the rate of the accelerated ventricular rhythm was exactly half that of the fast ventricular tachycardia. There were three deaths due to shock and heart failure. Three episodes of fast ventricular tachycardia progressed to ventricular fibrillation and were successfully cardioverted. It is concluded that accelerated ventricular rhythm is a relatively common complication of both anterior and inferior myocardial infarction. The high incidence of concomitant fast ventricular tachycardia, the frequency of ventricular premature beats with similar morphology and coupling time, and the instances of two arrhythmias having common rate multiples, suggest that at least in some instances accelerated ventricular rhythm may represent an ectopic focus with exit block.
Long electrocardiographic strips were analyzed from five patients who exhibited periods of typical "concealed bigeminy," i. e., recurrent unifocal extrasystoles which were separated from one another by odd numbers of normally conducted sinus beats. However, in each of these patients, there were periods in which one of three different variants of concealed bigeminy was observed. Three patients displayed an "even number" variant; i. e., there were large numbers of consecutive extrasystoles which were separated exclusively or preponderantly by even rather than by odd numbers of sinus beats. One other patient exhibited an "interpolated extrasystole" variant: those interectopic intervals which were initiated by an interpolated extrasystole contained an even number of sinus beats, whereas all other interectopic intervals contained an odd number. In the fifth patient, the distribution of the numbers of sinus beats separating extrasystoles was such as to suggest a periodic fluctuation between the classical forms of concealed bigeminy and concealed trigeminy; i. e., a "combined bigeminy and trigeminy" variant.
Among 4476 ECGs recorded from May 1972 to April 1973, 206 ECGs showed various arrhythmias. All ECGs showing any kind of arrhythmia were recorded for 2 to 4 minutes in order to obtain more than 3 premature beats in one tracing. Of 141 ECGs with premature beats from 126 cases, more than 2 interectopic parasystolic intervals could be measured in 122 cases (96.8% of those with premature beats and 2.7% of all the patients examined). More than 3 coupling intervals could be measured in 117 patients with premature beats. In only 13 of these 117 cases (11.1%), the coupling interval varied less than 0.04 second and less than 0.02 second in 2 cases (1.7%). 1) The parasystolic cycle length ranged between less than 0.20 and more than 2.51 seconds with 82.8% of them being in a range between 0.21 and 1.00 second. 2) The fluctuation rate of the parasystolic cycle length ranged between less than 1.0 and more than 15.1. It was between less than 1.0 and 5.0 in 56,6%, between 5.1 and 10.0 in 30.0% and between 10.1 and more than 15.1 in 13.1%. 3) Fusion beats were observed in 44 of 122 cases in which the interectopic parasystolic cycle length could be determined (36.1%). Of these 44 fusions 14 were found in atrial, 14 in A-V junctional and 16 in ventricular parasystole. 4) Theories of re-entry and ectopic enhancement were discussed.
The syndrome of Jervell and Lange-Nielsen with its characteristic combination of Q-T-(U) abnormalities and recurrent episodes of ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation can serve as a model for establishing recycling excitation (re-entry) as the likely cause of VT. The ECG abnormality in the Q-T-(U) segment indicates the underlying asynchronous repolarisation, probably localized in the His-Purkinje system. Asynchronous delayed repolarisation facilitates re-entry excitations. A personal case is reported which demonstrated two different patterns of inducing premature beats and VT, indicative of two different fascicular pathways of circus movement. The inducing extrasystole determines the circuit pathway and thus the ECG pattern of VT. The VT shows a fixed time relation depending on conduction delay and refractory period, which is a further indication for an underlying re-entry mechanism. Spontaneous changes in time relation or morphology point toward alterations in circuit pathways and can terminate the VT. Clinical findings in three further cases of the syndrome are reported. Furthermore, the possible general significance of these findings is highlighted by the occurrence of the described phenomena in seven patients in whom Q-T-(U) abnormalities exist merely as transient symptomatic disturbances.
The potential value of indium-labelled bleomycin as a diagnostic scanning agent has been investigated in patients with a variety of malignant neoplasms involving the thorax, abdomen or pelvis. Sixty-five patients were scanned on 72 occasions, the optimum time to perform the examination being 72 hours after the intravenous injection of 2 mCi 111-In chelated to 2 mg bleomycin. Tumour uptake was visualized in 53 out of 62 scans in which tumour was present, but the extent of tumour was underestimated in seven cases, and over-estimated in five others. The latter were mostly due to uptake in infective lesions. These results indicate that the situations in which indium bleomycin is most likely to provide clinically relevant information are the distinction between recurrent tumour and post-radiotherapy changes in the thorax and pelvis, the diagnosis of recurrent carcinoma within the pelvis, and the distinction between bony metastases from carcinoma of the prostate and Paget's disease. Further clinical trials are necessary to assess these situations.
Although cardiac involvement in Whipple's disease has been reported previously, the extent and significance of such involvement has not been stressed. In our series of 19 patients, 58% had clinical cardiac findings and 79% had gross cardiac lesions at autopsy. Histologically there were PAS-positive macrophages in the pericardium, myocardium, and valves of each of these patients. These collections of macrophages were associated with chronic inflammatory cells and foci of fibrosis with resultant adhesive pericarditis, focal myocardial fibrosis similar to the fibrosis of idiopathic cardiomyopathy, and valvular fibrosis with deformity grossly resembling the valvular lesions of chronic rheumatic heart disease. Four of the patients with mitral valvular deformity had cardiac murmurs, and ECG changes were noted in six patients with mitral myocardial fibrosis. In addition, pericardial friction rubs were heard in two patients. By electron microscopy rod-shaped bodies, presumably bacteria, were noted in the mitral valve and myocardium. The structures are identical to those described in the small intestinal mucosa of patients with Whipple's disease and presumably are the causative agent of the pancardiopathy.
106 episodes of ventricular fibrillation were observed in 11 patients, 9 of whom had acute myocardial infarctions. The heart rate before the onset of ventricular fibrillation was below 50 in two episodes, 60 to 100 in 63, and above 100 in 83 attacks of ventricular fibrillation were preceded by fewer than five ventricular premature beats, 23 by more than five, 19 by more than ten. Multifocal ventricular premature beats occurred ten times, runs of ventricular premature beats 11 times, with only three falling into the vulnerable period. Left bundle branch block was present in three patients, right bundle branch block with left anterior hemiblock in two, isolated left anterior hemiblock in two, left posterior hemiblock in one. 85 episodes of ventricular fibrillation occurred during antiarrhythmic treatment, 72 during lidocaine administration. Antiarrhythmic drugs were effective only in reducing the number of ventricular premature beats. The only successful treatment of recurrent episodes of ventricular fibrillation was repeated electrical countershocks.
Tritiated 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17beta-diol (3alpha-diol) and 5alpha-androstane-3beta,17beta-diol (3beta-diol) respectively were administered to patients with benign prostatic hypertrophy (bph) undergoing prostatectomy. In prostate and skeletal muscle homogenates and in plasma the total radioactivity content as well as the formation of metabolites were measured. Histological examination of each ectomized prostate was performed to evaluate the cellular composition of the tissue. After 3alpha-diol injection, a higher uptake of radioactivity in the prostate was obtained than after 3beta-diol. Within 30 min the 3alpha-isomer was very efficiently converted to 5alpha-DHT, while most of the 3beta-isomer remained unchanged. There was, however, also after administration of the 3beta-diol a substantial biconversion to 5alpha-DHT as has been confirmed by recrystallization to constant specific radioactivity. Only after 3beta-diol epiandrosterone was detected in small but significant amounts. 3alpha-diol administration resulted in distinct concentrations of 3beta-diol, whereas the conversion of 3beta-diol to the 3alpha-isomer was insignificant. When comparing the histological composition of the prostatic tissue with the accumulation of radioactivity and the formation of metabolites only a weak correlation between glandular structure and radioactivity uptake after 3alpha-diol administration could be revealed.
This paper presents an overview of studies of therapy of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in which chemotherapy was combined with other modalities. The rationale for using chemotherapy with surgery is discussed, but ststematic studies of this combination of modalities have not been reported. Systemic chemotherapy plus radiation therapy has been studied using hydrozyurea, t-fluorouracil (5-FU), and methotrexate (MTX). Uncontrolled studies with hydroxyurea report favorable results, but a well-controlled study gave negative results. Controlled studies with 5-FU have given favorable results in certain tumor stages and sites of origin. MTX plus radiation in a small series produced slightly better survival than radiation alone. Intra-arterial chemotherapy plus radiation therapy has been the subject of exploratory studies but no firm conclusions can be drawn from these studies. Chemotherapy plus immunotherapy has been explored and merits further study. Based on the studies reported to date one can suggest the need for large-scale randomized control studies of long-term chemotherapy combined with other modalities.
Six patients whose standare electrocardiograms showed multiform ventricular ectopic rhythm were studied. All patients had advanced organic heart disease and a significant intraventricular conduction defect (left bundle branch block in five and right bundle branch block plus left anterior hemiblock in one). The ventricular arrhythmia was generally resistant to antiarrhythmic therapy. Five of the six patients died after 2 to 6 months form the period of observation from terminal heart failure. None died suddenly. The ventricular arrhythmia did not seem to be directly related to mortality in any patient. Critical analysis of several long rhythm strips in each case revealed that discharge from multiple ventricular parasytolic foci shared in the multiform ventricular activity. The concurrent discharge of a minimum of three parasytolic foci and a maximum of six foci was found in the same case with a total of 24 parasystolic foci in the six patients. There was a remarkable constancy of the QRS configuration of all parasytolic foci over periods of observation of up to 16 months. However, 22 out of 24 parasystolic rhythms showed significant variation in the apparent rhythm or the administration of drugs. Fourteen parasytolic foci showed evidence of exit block, some of which were exaples of a rapid parasystole with a high degree of exit block. The study suggests that multiform ventricular ectopic rhythm may, in part, be due to the concurrent discharge of multiple parasystolic foci.
Two new cases of association between a thymoma and a lupus illness are reported. The first was a women aged 42 years in whom were discovered simultaneously systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and a slowly invading thymoma, the histology of which was characterized by the predominance of epithelial cells; excision of this tumour did not appear to affect the evolution of the SLE. In the second case, a patient aged 60 years suffered from SLE ten months after the removal of a benign thymoma in which there was a predominance of lymphocytes. The SLE in this patient was easily controlled for more than a year by small doses of corticoids, but resulted in death after three years when anuria was associated with meningeal signs after the cessation of corticotherapy. The comparision of the data from these cases with those from eleven other cases in which there was association between a thymoma and SLE, brought to light several interesting facts. It is rare that SLE clearly precedes the discovery of the thymoma; it usually occurs afterwards or the two are discovered almost simultaneously. Collagenosis is of importance only when it coexists with a thymoma : starting later much more often than is usual in cases of SLE. The tumours were, in all but two cases, benign thymomas of different histological types, and their removal did not apparently influence the evolution of the SLE.
Fifty-five patients with intractable partial seizures whose on-medication EEGs demonstrated either predominantly focal epileptiform lesions or absence of paroxysmal activity, were studied, and the effect of withdrawing all anticonvulsive drugs on their EEGs was observed. Four types of response were encountered: no effect (20%); specific (focal) activation (25%); complex activation (29%) with widespread of the initial on-medication focus or appearance of the additional independent epileptogenic foci; and "non-specific" activation (63%), consisting of bursts of either bilaterally synchronous and frontally dominant spike and waves, triphasic waves, or sharp slow complexes, or smaller amplitude rapid and diffuse spike-and-wave complexes. This latter effect is thought to be secondary to metabolic derangements resulting from the withdrawal of neurotropic agents and not directly related to the specific epileptogenic process. No association was found between type of effect and any of the following parameters: topography of on-medication focus, duration of therapy, type of anticonvulsant used, suspected underlying etiopathology, or median age when medication was withdrawnn. Furthermore no evidence could be found that the development of a "complex" or "non-specific" EEG effect carried with it a bad prognosis for surgical cure following focal cortical excision. Performing off-medication tracings seems to be of greatest value in patients with partial seizures and EEGs revealing either a relative paucity of definite absence of epileptiform discharges. The occurrence of a "non-specific" response in a questionable epileptic during the off-medication period, on the other hand, should be interpreted with caution.
Pulmonary toxic effects subsequent to intravenous injections of bleomycin in cancer therapy have well been demonstrated. In order to prevent the acute pathological pulmonary manifestations of the treatment, it is necessary that the patient be submitted to repeated controls of the lungs. As yet, the efficiency of the current diagnostic procedures for detecting the lesions dues to bleomycin injections is not clearly demonstrated. The authors present the results of a comparative study on the effectiveness of radiological and scintigraphic examination of the lung in detecting toxic side-effects of bleomycin. Both procedures were used repeatedly on rabbits, before, during and after the bleomycin treatment. The findings are discussed on the basis of the macroscopic and histological examination of the lungs. The results demonstrate that pulmonary scintigraphy with radioactive macroaggregates is more sensitive than radiography in detecting the early lesions of the lungs after bleomycin treatment.
Drug hepatitis occurred in 0-32 per cent of 7492 patients receiving antituberculous therapy, while the overall incidence of drug reactions was estimated at 9 per cent. PAS was the most common cause of drug hepatitis among the 38 patients analysed. The clinical, biochemical and haematological picture of antituberculous drug hepatitis was found to be fairly uniform. However, the patients with definite PAS hepatitis had lower SGOT values than those in whom there was uncertainty whether PAS or INH was implicated. Premonitory symptoms were present in all but four patients before the onset of jaundice. One or more of the features associated with dry hypersensitivity reactions, such as fever, rashes, lymphadenopathy, arthralgia, leucocytosis, eosinophilia and atypical monocytes were present in 89 per cent of cases so that confusion with viral hepatitis seldom arose. Sensitization time was less than three months in all except three patients, who were considered to be suffering from viral hepatitis. While no patients with PAS hepatitis died, the overall mortality was 17 per cent. A review of the literature stresses the frequency of asymptomatic elevations of SGOT, the value of clinical surveillance during the early months of therapy and the importance of stopping all therapy immediately warning symptoms appear.
Eighty-three patients with Stage II or Stage III germinal neoplasia of the testis and 7 patients with extragonadal primary tumors were treated with bleomycin plus vinblastine, or a five-drug program, bleomycin plus cyclophosphamide, vincristine, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil. Of the 70 Stage III patients, there were 53 responses (75%), 22 complete and 31 partial. The mean survival of the complete responders is 100+ weeks, with 3 dead. The mean survival of the partial responders and nonresponders is 38 weeks and 33 weeks, respectively. There is a highly significant difference between complete responders vs. partial and nonresponders (p less than 0.01). Thirteen patients with nonmeasurable disease (Stage II and Stage III postresectional status) but at great risk to develop widespread metastasis were treated prophylactically after conventional therapy. Nine continue in complete response to 36 months. The 7 extragonadal primary patients showed 4 partial responses, none complete. Major toxicity was myelosuppression and also bleomycin pneumonitis in 5 of the 90 evaluable patients.
Although experience with drug therapy of advanced or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is limited, several agents have produced convincing and reproducible tumor regression in these patients. Methotrexate has had the widest usage, and produces 30-50% response rates; bleomycin, hydroxyurea, and adriamycin appear to be somewhat less effective. Location of the malignancy and previous x-ray treatment appear to be important determinants of responsiveness to methotrexate, while degree of differentiation has not yet been shown to be an important factor for response to this drug. Attempts to improve the response rate and duration of chemotherapeutic response by utilizing combinations of drugs, or use of drugs to sensitize the tumor to x-ray treatment, or to reduce the bulk of tumor before x-ray treatment, are reviewed; they have been only moderately encouraging. Intra-arterial chemotherapy appears to have a therapeutic advantage over intravenous treatment; however, the morbidity associated with the former approach limits its usefulness for routine usage. The use of drugs as adjuncts following surgery and/or radiation therapy or immunotherapy are newer approaches that have not been investigated sufficiently, but are promising areas for investigation.
Although Whipple's disease is clinically recognized for its features of arthritis and diarrhea, pericarditis and cardiac valvular disease are frequently present and a significant number of such patients die suddenly and unexpectedly. This report includes special postmortem cardiovascular examinations in a 55-year-old man who died of Whipple's disease. Pericarditis and valvular disease were extensively present. There was also focal myocardial degeneration, including the sinus node, A-V node and His bundle. Typical Schiff-positive bacilli were found in the tunica media and endothelium most numerously in the small coronary and hepatic arteries, less in splenic and renal arteries, and least in small pulmonary arteries. Large coronary arteries and the aorta were not involved. Three stages of bacterial invasion of the arteries included a noninflammatory phase in which the bacilli were most numerous, a pancreatic phase in which bacilli were distinctly less numerous, and a healed scarring of arteries previously damaged. The combination of pericarditis, valvular disease of the heart, coronary and systemic bacterial arteritis and focal myocardial degeneration and myocarditis is unusual for Whippl'e disease. Studies of other cases are warranted to determine whether bacterial arteriopathy and arteritis have previously been overlooked or if the present case is unique. Evidence that the conduction system of the heart may be involved indicated that careful attention to cardiac rhyth and conduction is merited in future studies of patients with Whipple's disease.
A review of the literature on the embryology, anatomy and angiography of the internal auditory artery has shown that there may be considerable variation as to the origin and number of internal auditory arteries. The present study, based on serial magnification angiographies of the internal auditory artery, has demonstrated 7 variants of the origin of this artery although in 45.4% of cases the internal auditory artery arose from the anterior inferior cerebellar artery. For the diagnosis of pathological processes in the cerebellopontine angle (tumors, sudden deafness, vascular abnormalities) magnification angiography is of special importance. Acoustic neurinomas in particular can be diagnosed early on the basis of vascular dislocations and possible tumor staining. Magnification angiography is the method of choice for the demonstration of vascular malformations. The etiology of sudden deafness can not be determined by angiographic studies alone, due to the fact that the internal auditory artery can show considerable variations as regards length and caliber. Magnification angiography of this region should be carried out in all cases with the clinical picture of a cerebellopontine angle lesion in order to achieve diagnostic clarification.
In the m. tibialis anterior of a 68-year-old man with rapidly developing denervation atrophy in the legs since 1/2 year prior to death from heart stroke, abundant unifocal concentric fiber changes, such as target, targetoid/core, and targetoid fibers could be observed. Besides, large vacuolized fibers with multiple changes resembling cytoplasmic bodies in the peripheral zone were present as well; they are interpreted as fibers with multicentric target or targetoid formations. The target fibers displayed a broad variation of their outer appearance suggesting a continuous transition to targetoid/core fibers (with a dense center) and targetoid fibers (with a central change to aquous sarcoplasm showing a paucity of fibrillar structures). Very few fibers with a central densification of fibrillar material with or without a thin intermediate zone were fairly akin to core fibers of central core disease; others were more alike the type of targetoid fibers, previously described in the literature, showing a dense target-like center; both were summarized under the term, inaugurated by Engel et al. (1966), "targetoid/core fibers". Simultaneous occurrence of the different kinds of concentric fiber changes suggested a strong relation between all of them in the sense of representing different developmental stages of the same pathogenetic process. Thus, the central core disease, for instance, might be a disorder with a generalization of concentric fiber changes having come to arrest in the earliest stage of development.
54 patients have been studied after paracetamol (acetaminophen) overdose. Liver-function tests and fasting serum bile-acids were measured daily; liver biopsy was done in all cases, and slides were examined "blind" to assess liver damage. The plasma-paracetamol was measured on one occasion. A histological abnormality was present in the livers of 53 of the 54 patients, and was minor in 23, moderate in 16, and severe in In 6 patients with moderate and 18 with mild histological abnormality liver-function tests were normal. A serum-aspartate-aminotransferase above 400 units/1 was always associated with severe histological liver damage. Fasting serum bile-acids were raised in 51 of the patients with abnormal liver histology; the serum-bile-acid seemed to be a more sensitive indicator of mild liver-cell damage than was the transaminase level. There was, however, little correlation between increase in bile-acid concentration and the degree of histological abnormality. As a result of these investigations empirically determined levels of plasma-paracetamol have been drawn which give a guide to the likelihood of liver damage after paracetamol overdose.
In a 41-year-old woman and a 3-year-old girl, both of them with T3-thyrotoxicosis, serum levels of total and free T4 and T3 were measured serially during anti-thyroid drug treatment. Attempts to substitute thyroxine during the antithyroid treatment had to be interrupted because the patients became hyperthyroid again with excessive increases in total and free serum T3, even when concentrations of total and free T4 were brought to subnormal levels. The increased conversion of administered thyroxine ceased later on and higher amounts of oral T4 were tolerated after one year of treatment. In both patients there was an extremely low serum T4/T3 ratio, differing in this respect significantly from six other patients with T3-thyrotoxicosis and 41 patients with "conventional" T3/T4-hyperthyroidism. It is concluded that, in patients with T3-thyrotoxicosis due to excessive peripheral T4 to T3 conversion, substitution during antithyroid drug treatment should be either with very low doses of thyroxine or with triiodothyronine in divided daily doses. In such cases the level of serum T3 represents the most reliable biochemical measurement for the control of treatment, serum T4 levels being irrelevant.
Recent lots of conventional gamma-globulin prepared from the plasma of outdated blood collected from voluntary donors in Massachusetts contain substantially more antibody (anti-HBs) to the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs Ag) than do lots manufactured from plasma collected before Variations in titer of anti-HBs may have been related in part to local variations in the incidence of hepatitis B. However, data available since 1949 suggest that one must consider whether antibody excess (anti-HBs) or antigen excess (HBs Ag) prevailed among individuals contributing to the plasma pools. The titers of anti-HBs have continued to rise since 1971, when screening of blood donors for HBs Ag became mandatory, a step which presumably resulted in the removal of much of the HBs Ag that would otherwise adsorb anti-HBs. The anti-HBs titer in gamma-globulin routinely produced in Massachusetts now equals or exceeds the titer in other lots of gamma-globulin found to be effective in recent studies of preexposure prophylaxis of hepatitis B.
Bleomycin labeled with 57Co was used as a tumor-localizing agent in 132 patients. In patients with pulmonary tumors the primary localization concentrated radioactivity in 52 of the 54 appropriate cases; out of the 22 clinically known metastases, 19 were visible on the scan; 40 unknown metastases especially in hilus and mediastinum were found by the method and subsequently confirmed. In 22 patients with malignant lymphomas, 18 out of 22 known pathologic lymph glands above the diaphragm were visible on the scan; below the diaphragm the results of scanning in lymph glands and spleen were disappointing, probably because of the disturbing concentration of radioactivity in the kidneys, the bladder, the liver, and sometimes the gut. In 25 patients with various other tumors, 16 out of 22 known localizations above the diaphragm were visible; 2 were uncertain and 4 negative. Below the diaphragm the results were usually negative. In 24 patients with benign lesions, uptake of 57Co-bleomycin was visible on the scintigram in 4 patients with cavitating pulmonary tuberculosis, in 2 with pulmonary infections, in 1 with Caplan lesions of rheumatoid arthritis in the lung, and in 1 with sinusitis ethmoidalis. The significance of these results is discussed.
Frozen sections of eight odontogenic cysts, including one keratocyst, were incubated to show the following enzyme activities: NADH2 diaphorase, NADPH2 diaphorase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase and leucine aminopeptidase. The disbribution of lipid was shown by the oil red 0 method. The activities of all three oxidative enzymes were strongest in epithelial cells bordering hyalin bodies and in basal cells in the epithelial lining. Hydrolytic enzyme activity was absent from all but the most superficial epithelial cells but was present in macrophages and, in lesser amounts, in granular material in the same sections. The granular material frequently contained lipid. The lack of hydrolytic enzyme activity in bordering epithelial cells is inconsistent with the theory that hyalin bodies form from degenerating blood vessels. High aerobic oxidative enzyme activity in the same cells also conflicts with the concept that the bodies are a keratinous product. The findings lend support to the theory that hyalin bodies are an epithelial secretion.
A method of radiologic visualization of the male urethra especially for detecting prostatic carcinoma is reported. This method is called double contrast retrograde urethrocystography and is similar to that of Flocks in combining air cystography and retrograde urethrography but it differs in the manner of making the exposure. In our method the exposure is made with the patient in an exaggerated Trendelenburgs position to allow the contrast medium injected into the bladder to accumulate at the dome. Thus, in the urethrocystogram obtained by this method, the bladder neck and the prostatic urethra immediately adjacent to it are always clearly visualized unlike that obtained by conventional retrograde urethrography, evacuation cystourethrography and sometimes even the method of Flocks, in which these regions are prone to be covered and masked by the contrast medium injected and accumulated in the bladder. Therefore, with our method the radiological detection and differentiation of the malignant lesion involving these regions are more accurate and definite. From our clinical experiences the mode of compression and displacement caused by benign prostatic hypertrophy is continuous and regular, while that caused by prostatic carcinoma is interrupted, irregular and with moth-eaten and granular defects. Four cases are reported.
Twelve cases of severe altitude illness are reported in which the neurological signs and symptoms dominated the clinical picture. Pulmonary oedema, retinal haemorrhage, thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism, bronchopneumonia, and coronary-artery disease were also present in several of the patients but the primary problem seems to have been cerebral oedema. Other published cases support this impression. Patients who were returned to low altitude early in the disease fared well; two patients died, and in both cases evacuation had been delayed. The most effective prevention lies in slow ascent, though in one case reported here the rate of climb was well within the recommended limit. Recommended management is rapid descent to low altitude at earliest indication of cerebral or pulmonary oedema, intravenous dexamethasone or betamethasone in large doses, hydration, diuresis (frusemide has been most used), and perhaps other intravenous therapy with hyperosmolar materials such as mannitol, urea, 50% saline, or 50% sucrose. Prognosis is good if descent and treatment are started early, but permanent damage may be anticipated if the patient is unconscious for any prolonged period before descent.
An important role should be attributed to the prostatic venous complex and to its pathology in the clinical aspects of prostate adenoma. This appears to be responsible for the acute retention of urine as well as for the hemorrhages that accompany the disease. The authors, on the occasion of 50 adenomectomies by the trans-vesical method, have carried out histological investigations on the excised tissues and made a correlation with the microscopic aspects of the peri-orificial urethra and of the prosthatic urethra, in connection with the changes noted in the venous system. The veins have displayed more or less important changes in all the cases. These consisted in stasis, lacunar dilatations or of the varicose type, inflammations or parietal modifications of a different origin. At the same time were noted signs of inflammation in the submucosa as well as in the muscular layer of the bladder wall, which appeared to be distrophic. The pathogenic role is stressed of the venous system in the developement of the clinical aspects especially in type II and III of a personal classification.
Two tumour-imaging agents, 67Gallium-citrate and 111Indium-bleomycin have been assessed in a clinical trial. Both the quality of tumour image and correlation with known sites of disease has been compared by scanning with the two agents in a variety of malignant diseases. In addition, comparative uptakes of the agents have been measured in biopsy samples. In 28 scanning examinations using the agents sequentially, 67Gallium-citrate provided a more satisfactory tumour image and had closer clinical correlation with known sites of disease in 14 cases. Scans were felt to be of similar quality in 14 cases. There were no examples where 111Indium-bleomycin scans were found to be superior to 67Gallium-citrate. A number of biopsy samples of spleen, liver and lymph nodes were obtained from patients undergoing staging laparotomies for lymphomas in whom small doses of 67Gallium-citrate and 111Indium-bleomycin had been injected shortly before operation. Seven of the spleen samples were infiltrated with tumour and five of these contained less 67Ga than 111In; in contrast four of the five tumour-infiltrated lymph nodes showed 67Ga concentrations greater than those of 111In. It is concluded that 67Gallium-citrate is a more useful tumour-imaging agent than 111Indium-bleomycin, at least for lesions situated above the diaphragm. The value of 111Indium-bleomycin in the demonstration of abdominal malignancies has not been fully assessed in this study. Trials of new tumour imaging agents should as far as possible be compared directly with the best available alternative agent in a controlled study.
Bleomycin, an anticancer drug, was labeled with 99mTc using stannous chloride and ascorbic acid and specific activities of 1-3 mCi/mg-eq with labeling efficiencies of 50-75% were achieved. Very rapid excretion of 99mTc-bleomycin through the kidney and concomitant rapid decrease of radioactivity in blood, various tissues and organs, and whole body were observed after intravenous administration of the radiopharmaceutical into tumor-bearing mice. In such animals, approximately 1% of the label was found in a transplanted fibrosarcoma within 30 min while 0.58% was recovered in such lesions even after 24 hr. In patients positive tumor images were obtained by scintigraphy as early as 1 hr after intravenous administration of 3-5 mCi of 99mTc-bleomycin. A total of 142 cases were examined by scintigraphy after administration of 99mIc-bleomycin and/or 67Ga-citrate. In 93 cases with various malignant tumors, tumor was detected in 80% using 99mTc-bleomycin and in 63% using 67Ga-citrate. Technetium-99m-bleomycin scintigraphy successfully detected tumors of the thyroid, lung, face, breast, extremity, and digestive tract and was also useful in finding metastatic lesions and brain tumors. However, 67Ga scintigraphy gave superior results in detecting lesions in patients with malignant lymphomas. In patients with inflammatory diseases, accumulation in lesions was detected in 13% using 99mTc-bleomycin and in 48% using 67Ga-citrate. The further use of 99mTc-bleomycin scintigraphy for tumor detection in patients appears to be warranted.
Out of 18 subjects with symptomless autoimmune thyroiditis (S.A.T.) 5 (28%) became hypothyroid within 4 to 39 months of observation, whereas 13 (72%) remained euthyroid up to atleast 28 to 50 months. In all those who developed hypothyroidism the basal serum level of thyroid-stimulating hormone (T.S.H.) was already initially above normal (normal range 1-6--6-9 muU/ml) and 4 had markedly elevated concentrations (less than 19 muU/ml). All those subjects developing hypothyroidism also had initially an exaggerated response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (T.R.H.) (upper normal limit, delta T.S.H. 30 muU/ml), and in 4 the response was much exaggerated (delta T.S.H. less than 70 muU/ml). In 3 of these subjects the basal T.S.H. and the response to T.R.H. were reassessed before starting the substitution therapy and in all there was a further increase in both values. The basal serum T.S.H. was initially also slightly increased in 2 and the response to T.R.H. slightly above normal in 4 subjects who remained euthyroid. The basal T.S.H. level became normal in both cases with elevated values; and the response to T.R.H. declined to a normal level in 3 of the latter 4 subjects, but showed a further increase in The thyroglobulin antibody (TgA) titres were initially significantly elevated in 15 subjects and the thyroid microsomal antibodies (MsA) in The TgA titres decreased during the observation period in all but 1 subject and a similar trend was observed as regards the MsA titres. It is concluded that within a few years of observation a substantial number of subjects with S.A.T. will be hypothyroid. A definitively increased basal serum T.S.H. level and a markedly exaggerated response to T.R.H. in the symptomless stage of the disease is connected with a high risk of late hypothyroidism.
Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) preparations, from various sources were compared by radioimmunoassay. The preparations studied included four CEA standards (CEA-Roch, CEA-Montreal, CEA-City of Hope, and CEA-British) and CEA from serum and liver metastases of a patient with cancer of the colon who had an extremely high concentration of serum CEA (more than 26,000 ng/ml). The data indicate that the CEA-Roche standard differs significantly from the other three CEA standards tested, and that the serum CEA from the patient was antigenically different from currently available CEA standards as well as from the CEA obtained from the patient's own liver metastases. These antigenic differences were reflected in radioimmunoassay inhibition curves that were different and that were not affected by perchloric acid extraction of CEA. Because of the antigenic variation in the serum CEA, markedly different CEA concentrations (varying by three orders of magnitude) were measurable by two different antisera (Roche and Montreal). All the various CEA standards and samples cochromatographed on columns of Sepharose-6B, despite the large antigenic variation. We postulate that CEA consists of a family of "isoantigens" with multiple antigenic determinants. We identified a serum CEA isoantigen that was different from the currently available standards. Consequently, we believe that results of radioimmunoassays currently used for CEA measurement may not represent absolute concentrations of serum "CEA", but may reflect the binding affinity of different isoantigens to a particular polyvalent CEA antiserum.
Single-agent chemotherapy of advanced and recurrent squamous carcinoma of the female genital tract has been largely ineffective. Combination-drug therapy which has augmented the efficacy of chemotherapy in numerous solid and nonsolid human tumors is usually attended by a degree of toxicity that has discouraged its use against malignancies exhibiting a poor response to single agents. A seven-drug regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil, actinomycin D, vincristine, cytosine arabinoside, methotrexate, and bleomycin administered during a 24 hour period at 4 week intervals was selected for clinical trial against squamous malignancies of the female genitalia because of its proved broad-spectrum activity among solid tumors and its low incidence of serious toxicity. Severe bone marrow depression occurred during only two of 98 drug cycles involving 23 patients. An objective tumor response was observed in nine of 18 evaluable patients. This regimen appears to be useful in the palliative management of squamous carcinoma of the female genital tract.
The effect of chronic treatment with tyroxine (T4) or propylthiouracile (PTU) on the turnover of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) has been studied in various areas of the rat brain (brain stem, hypothalamus, striatum and "rest of the brain"). The turnover of NE and DA was determined by the decay in endogenous levels after inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase by alpha-methylparatyrosine and the turnover of 5-HT was evaluated by the initial accumulation of endogenous 5-HT after inhibition of monoamine oxydase by pargyline. T4 treatment accelerated the release of DA from the striatum but had no significant effects on NA release in the various cerebral areas : nevertheless the NE endogenous level was significantly reduced in the brain stem. PTU treatment delayed the release of DA and NA only from the "rest of the brain". Concerning 5-HT, the only significant variation was observed in the hypothalamus of PTU-treated rats and implied increased turnover. The possible relations between the changes in cerebral monoamines turnover and the behavioural alterations which are observed in thyroid disfunction are discussed.
Twenty-three patients with stage III germinal neoplasia of the testis were treated with a variation of our original vinblastine-bleomycin program. This modification consisted of 0.4 mg/kg of vinblastine given in two fractions on Days 1 and 2 followed by continuous intravenous administration of 30 units of bleomycin in 1000 cc of 5% glucose and distilled water over a 24-hour period for 5 successive days beginning on Day Therapy was repeated every 28-35 days as toxicity permitted. There were 17 responses, nine of which were complete (39%). Eight of the complete responses were in patients with massive disease in whom a low complete response rate was expected. Toxic effects consisted of severe leukopenia in 90% thrombopenia in 50%, and unexplained transient hyperbilirubinemia in about 30% of the patients. Bleomycin pneumonitis occurred in one patient and resulted in death. Hypertension was a new and unexpected side reaction experienced by four patients. Further trials are indicated since the complete response rate in patients with advanced massive disease appears to be improved.
To evaluate the potential contribution of thyroidal secretion to the relative excess of triiodothyronine (T3) production in hyperthyroidism and to investigate the effects of treatment, iodine (127I), T3 and thyroxine (T4) were measured in digests of thyroid tissue obtained at surgery from 13 patients with Graves' disease. In 11 normal human thyroid glands, 127I content was 630 +/- 60 (all values mean +/- SE in mug/ wet weight) T4, 254 +/- 39 and T3 21 +/-3. The T4I was 26 +/- 3% of the total iodine and the molar ratio T4/T3 was 11 +/- The 13 patients with Graves' disease were divided into three groups. Eleven were clinically euthyroid (Groups I and II) and had received either iodide or iodide plus a thiourea derivative before surgery. Two subjects (Group III) received only propranolol. In Group I (n = 8), mean thyroidal 127I content was 320 +/- 50, T4 was 115 +/- 9 and T3 22 +/- The molar ratio T4/T3 was 5.9 +/- 1 and T4I was 26 +/- 2% of the total. Group II patients had the lowest preoperative serum T4 (less than 2.5 mug/dl) and T3 (less than ng/dl) concentrations with TSH elevated in only one (7 muU/ml). Thyroidal 127I was 100 +/- 26, T49 +/- and T3 1.3 +/- 0.3. The % T4I was 5 +/-2. The two chemically hyperthyroid subjects had a mean tissue 127I of 450; T4, 295 and T3, 56, the T4/T3 ratio was 4.5 and % T4I was There was no correlation between tissue 127I and T4/T3 within either the normal or Graves' disease group. Since adequate clinical and chemical control of hyperthyroidism with antithyroid drugs and iodine was attained in the 8 Group I subjects without a decrease in the % T4I or T3I below that of normal thyroids, it suggests that inhibition of iodotyrosine coupling is not required for this effect. The % T4I was below normal only in patients with marked suppression of serum T4 and T3 concentraions. The lack of correlation between tissue 127I and T4/T3 ratio in the treated patients suggests that the lower T4/T3 ratio in Graves' thyroids is independent of intrathyroidal iodine concentrations. This hypothesis is strengthened by the similarly low T4/T3 ratio in untreated subjects with near normal tissue 127I content. Assuming that the thyroid hormones are secreted in the ratios present in these digests, one can estimate that direct secretion by the thyroid could contribute most, of not all, of the excess T3 production in Graves' disease.
Ten men were subjected to transurethral electroresection because of prostatic adenoma. All were examined with urethrocystography on 3 occasions, viz. at the end of operation, 4-7 days later and after a further 2-3 months. Peroperative examination for residual adenoma appeared to be of little value, while examination a few days after the operation revealed residual adenomas in 2 cases and possibly also in a third. The cavity left after the operation had the same size at the peroperative and the first postoperative examination, though its outline was sometimes smoother at the latter. During urination the cavity invariably increased in size. At the second postoperative examination the operation cavity was clearly smaller and its outline smoother in 9 of 10 cases. The cavity still expanded during micturition. No passage of contrast medium to the veins was ever demonstrable. At the peroperative examination the contrast medium was not injected under any substantial pressure and the cavity was not exposed to pressure by micturition. Even at the first postoperative examination, when the operation cavity was exposed to pressure by urination, the veins that had been opened at operation had closed so effectively that no contrast medium passed outside the prostatic capsule. Urethrocystography in association with TUR of prostatic adenoma is of interest to the urological surgeon. It provides him with a possibility to check his work very carefully.
Skin biopsy specimens from a 60-year-old patient with paraproteinemia and generalized changes of the skin typical of scleromyxedema were studied with the electron microscope. The dermis was dominated by collagen fibrils and accumulations of peculiar connective tissue cells, while elastic tissue was sparse and in some areas completely absent. Large, sharply demarcated areas of a filamentous material were occasionally observed. The collagen fibrils were often surrounded by thin filaments with a periodic segmentation and by many glycosaminoglycan (mucopolysaccharide) filaments. The elastic fibres contained large amounts of elastic fibrils and small amounts of a homogenous matrix. The cytoplasm of the above-mentioned cells was dominated by lysosomes in different stages of development, often occupying almost all the cytoplasmic area. The collagen fibrils were found in close relation to these cells, frequently inside invaginations of the cells. Furthermore, collagen fibrils were observed free in the cytoplasmic area and inside the lysosomes, indicating lysosomal degradation of collagen.
Ten out-patients with pustulosis palmaris et plantaris were examined with direct immunofluorescence (IF) technique for deposition of fibrinogen, fibrin or its degradation products (FR-antigen) in affected and unaffected skin, together with heparin-precipitable fraction (HPF), cryoglobulin and total plasma fibrinogen in the blood. FR-antigen was found in all cases in affected skin as a uniform pattern of a continuous ramification below the dermo-epidermal junction. This IF picture was absent in unaffected skin, but in other parts of the dermis in affected and unaffected skin, scattered streaks of IF could be seen. In one case, however, unevenly distributed IF was found in unaffected skin in the junction area. The scattered IF was also present in a minor degree in affected and unaffected skin in a control material of other dermatoses. Only one patient had slightly elevated values of HPF (0.33 mg/ml). Total plasma fibrinogen was insignificantly elevated, and no cryoglobulin could be found.
6 autopsy cases of primary leptomeningeal sarcomatosis are presented as a distinct nosological entity with a variable clinical picture and morphology in 5 males and 1 female. The clinical course from onset of symptoms till death ran for only a few weeks in most cases. 2 infants showed brain tumor symptoms and signs. 2 patients of advanced age presented a polyradiculoneuritic syndrome and 2 young adults had spinal cord compression symptoms and a mixed clinical form. In almost all cases, clinical symptoms and signs were for most of the course confined to one part of the neuraxis. The CSF was distinctly abnormal in all cases, showing elevated protein, depressed glucose and pleocytosis of variable extent. CSF sediment was investigated in 3 cases in all of which malignant tumor cells were found so a diagnosis of malignant meningeal tumor was made during life. Electron microscopy of CSF cells in 1 case confirmed the primitive character of the tumor cells. Complete autopsies revealed absence of any neoplasm outside of the CNS. Gross meningeal involvement was visible in all cases. Histologically, 3 tumor types were distinguished: polymorphic cell sarcoma, an undifferentiated form, and fibrosarcomatosis. Clinical data are analyzed in order to distinguish the condition from other neoplasms or infectious, especially tuberculous meningeal infiltrations. CSF cytology studies are considered the most useful step in clinical diagnosis. Neuropathological features are reviewed with stress on differentiation from malignant lymphomas of the CNS, diffusely spreading medulloblastoma, meningeal melanoblastosis and gliomatosis. The origin of meningeal sarcomatosis cells is briefly discussed. The use of the term "meningeal meningiomatosis" for this condition is deprecated.
Evaluation of alterations in the level of alpha2-globulin in the serum of 18 patients with prostatic cancer prior to and following cryotherapy of their primary prostatic tumor and the clinical response of these patients disclosed: a progressive increase in the level of alpha2-globulin and the incidence of patients with significantly elevated levels of alpha2-globulin, i.e., greater than or equal to 1.30 g/100 ml, with a progression of the stage of their malignancy; a decrease in the levels of alpha2-globulin in the serum of 14 of 18 (78%) patients following cryotherapy, and a favorable clinical response in 11 of 14 (79%) patients with prostatic cancer showing a decrease in alpha2-globulin following cryotherapy. While limited to the study of a relatively small patient population, the present results suggest a prognostic potential for alpha2-globulin, particularly as applied to stage identification in prostatic cancer. Pending confirmation by evaluation of a larger patient population, it may even provide objective criteria for monitoring the clinical response of an individual following cryotherapy of the prostate.
A comparative trial of a combination of thiacetazone 150 mg with isoniazid 300 mg in a once daily dose and that paraaminosalicyclic acid 12 gm uith isoniazid 300 mg daily in divided doses was carried out on 72 specially selected patients with pulmonary tuberculosis over a period of 12 months. The result of the trial showed that patients treated with thiacetazone/isoniazid combination responded equally favourably to therapy as the patients treated with PAS/isoniazid combination. The result of sputum conversion was similar in both groups. Radiological changes after treatment showed a significant similarity in both groups. It was observed that the thiacetazone/isoniazid combination is no more toxic than the PAS/isoniazid combination. There was no case of blood dyscrasia during the trial. Of the 72 patients who started the trial, a total of 19 (26 per cent) patients defaulted before the end of the third month. However, the remaining 53 patients (74 per cent) completed the trial, and the final analysis was based on this number. It was concluded that thiacetazone (150 mg/day) was of similar efficacy when compared with PAS (12 gm/day) as a companion drug for isoniazid (300 mg/day) in producing sputum conversion, and radiological changes in Nigerian tuberculosis patients and is therefore to be preferred because of its relative cheapness and once-a-day administration.
Among the newest beta-blocking agents visken is the one that either produces no or very little adverse inotropic effect. In some groups of patients with organic and neurotic cardiac disorders, screened as a result of a careful clinical examination, changes that occurred on the ECG with 12 leads following an intake of a single visken tablet (5 mg) were studied. Ingestion of visken was not seen to bring any improvement in the ECG findings in 88 per cent of 50 patients with organic disorders, most of whom had sclerosis of the coronary arteries and hypertensive disease attended by a high diastolic pressure. A thorough clinical examination of 70 patients presenting neurotic conditions helped to rule out any organic cardiac lesions, and in them the diastolic pressure did not exceed 95 mm Hg. The visken test showed that in 91 per cent of these cases the ECG returned back to normal and only in 1.5 per cent of them no changes could be observed. In both of the above groups the effect of visken was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). Repolarization derangements in the I and II leads among patients with organic lesions was observed 4 times as often as in the II and III leads. Among neurotic patients changes recorded in the II and III leads were twice as frequent as in the I and II leads.
Thirty rabbits were investigated in 3 groups: a) one consisting of non-immunized animsls which were injected intraarticularly with human soluble collagen, human gammaglobulin or saline, b) the other consisting of human gammaglobulin-immunized animals which were injected with human soluble collagen and human gammaglobulin into the knee joints, and c) the third consisting of human collagen-immunized rabbits which were injected with human soluble collagen and human gammaglobulin into the knee joints. Eighteen hours after injection animals were sacrificed, joint fluid collected, cell number in fluid determined and synovial tissue prepared for histologic investigation. Distinct acute synovitis was observed in collagen injected knees of collagen immunized rabbits, as shown by distinctly increased cell number in fluids and histologic investigation. In comparison to collagen- or gammaglobulin injected knees of non-immunized animals, increase in cell number of collagen injected knees of collagen injected animals was statistically significant with P less than 0.005 respectively with P less than 0.01, and with P less than 0.025 in comparison to gammaglobulin injected contralateral knee. Distinct acute inflammation was observed morphologically in synovial tissue of collagen injected knees of collagen immunized animals only. Acute synovitis was also observed in positive controls, i.e. gammaglobulin injected knees of gammaglobulin immunized animals. These observations show, that appearance of collagen in molecular disposable form can induce acute inflammation of joints in state of collagen immunization.
The lipid and protein fractions of the endobronchial lavage fluid from the normal rats which contained the lung surfactant were analysed. Lecithin, the main main component of the lung surfactant, was exclusively combined with a dextran precipitable protein. This protein then behaved as beta-globulin on cellulose acetate electrophoresis or low density lipoprotein on agarose gel filtration. After administration of phospholipase C (from Clostridium Welchii), the protein content of the lavage fluid increased markedly. The amount of dextran precipitable protein also increased markedly and its properties remained the same on gel filtration after treatment with phospholipase C. The phospholipids in the lavage fluid were not affected, although the total phospholipids in the lung tissue, especially lecithin, did decrease during the 10 days after treatment. Histopathologically, an eosinophilic dense exudative fluid appeared in both the interstitium and the broncho-alveolar spaces. A large number of the alveolar lining cells disappeared and a few of them were desquamated into the alveolar spaces. Thus, the immediate destruction of the alveolar lining cells after the administration of phospholipase C resulted in interstitial pneumonia in 10 days. The significance of phospholipase in pulmonary inflammation is discussed.
A new radiopharmaceutical, indium-111 labeled bleomycin (IB), was evaluated as a tumor-imaging agent in 55 patients with lymphoma. Overall disease activity was correctly identified in 79% of 75 whole-body scan obtained 48 hours after intravenous administration of IB. Serial scans in 19 patients accurately reflected changes in their disease status. Lymphatic and soft tissues sites of involvement both above and below the diaphragm were most readily identified by scanning. Bone marrow and hepatic involvements were more difficult to detect because of normal tissue background in the considered organs. Five patients manifested diffuse pulmonary uptake of IB and only in one case was it explained. To determine the accuracy of scanning with IB, we evaluated 731 individual sites of potential tumor involvement with these results: true positives 90%, false negatives 10%, false positives 4%, and true negatives 96%. Thus, tumor scanning with indium-111 bleomycin is an important new technique for the initial staging and serial evaluation of patients with lymphoma.
The bacteriologic, epidemiologic, clinical, and diagnostic findings and management of the scalded skin syndrome (SSS) in 42 children are reported SSS may present in one of three ways: Ritter's disease in infants, characterized by an acute, generalized bullous dermatitis simulating the appearance of scalded skin, followed by exfoliation; Lyell's disease, or toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), in children or adults, with scalded skin and bullae followed by extensive exfoliation; or a nonstreptococcal scarlatiniform eruption, or staphylococcal scarlet fever, manifested by a generalized scarlatiniform erythema ans subsequent minimal to moderate fine desquamation. Staphylococcus aureus was isolated and implicated as the causative agent in 32 of the 42 children; nine of the other ten children had received a drug or vaccine preceding their rash. SSS in children has increased in frequency recently, is usually due to S aureus infection with potential epidemic aspects, can be recognized easily by its unusual clinical features, and has an excellent prognosis with appropriate management.
Glycosaminoglycans were isolated from the urines of 46 patients with mucopolysaccharidosis; 11 with Type I (Hurler), 8 with Type II (Hunter), 16 with Type III (Sanfilippo A and B), 9 with Type V (Scheie), one with Type VI (Marateaux-Lamy), and one unclassified. All 46 patients excreted in their urine excessive amounts of dermatan sulfate, heparan sulfate or both. In addition, patients of certain types excreted excessive amounts of chondroitin sulfates A and/or C. There is a trend in each type of the disease towards the same carbazole/orcinol ratio, glucosamine/galactosamine ratio and glycosaminoglycan composition. Molecular weight distribution of the urinary glycosaminoglycans by gel filtration from Sephadex G-200 is characteristic for each different type of mucopolysaccharidosis and is distinguished from normal controls and patients without mucopolysaccharidosis. Preparation of elution diagrams from Sephadex G-200 allows an estimation of the composition of the glycosamino-glycans. Practically all heparan sulfate and a sizable part of dermatan sulfate from the urinary glycosaminoglycans of all these patients have been highly degraded. In all the patients in which the specific enzyme defect was demonstrated, the assignment of the type of mucopolysaccharidosis, on the basis of the elution diagrams, was correct. Patients with mucopolysaccharidosis Type V displayed two conspicuously different types of elution patterns, suggesting heterogeneity. Indeed, only a portion of these patients showed alpha-L- iduronidase deficiency. Carriers had normal urinary glycosaminoglycan output and composition and exhibited normal elution diagrams.
This paper deals with further experiences in endoscopy of the maxillary sinus and in possibilities of endoscopy of frontal and sphenoidal sinuses. Some coloured photographs taken during endoscopy are shown. As the result of 301 sinuscopies of maxillary sinus performed, it could be shown that in 36% of the cases x-ray findings didn't exactly correspond with the endoscopy findings. In further 22% there was no correlation at all between the x-rays and findings at operation. This shows the great importance of sinuscopy and reveals its diagnostic values. The author used the endoscopy of the maxillary sinus not only for diagnostic purposes but for the treatment of chronic purulent sinusitis as well as complete removal of the socalled solitary cysts of the mucous membrane. A therapeutic gap between the two extreme (conservative treatment on one side and radical surgery Caldwell-Luc on the other side) ist bridged using this method. Finally the indications for endoscopy of maxillary and frontal sinuses are shown clearly in a table.
Some important enzymes concerned with the biosynthesis of the precursors of glycosaminoglycans (gg), degradation of gg and biological sulphation have been studied in rats fed an atherogenic diet. L-Glutamine-D-fructose-6-phosphate amino-transferase and glucosamine-6-phosphate-N-acetylase--2 enzymes concerned with the biosynthesis of hexosamine precursors of gg--decreased in the liver in rats fed the atherogenic diet. UDPG pyrophosphorylase, UDPG dehydrogenase and UDPG glucuronic acid-5'-epimerase, which are concerned with the biosynthesis of the uronic precursors of gg, also decreased in the liver in the diet-fed rats. The activities of some of the enzymes concerned with degradation of gg-hyaluronidase, beta-glucuronidase beta-hexosaminidase, cathepsin and aryl sulphatase--increased both in the liver and aorta. The hepatic concentration of PAPS significantly decreased in the diet-fed rats. The sulphate-activating system, which includes ATP sulphurylase, APS kinase and sulphotransferase, also decreased. Thus the overall picture is one of decreased synthesis of gg and their increased degradation in the atheromatous rats.
This presentation summarizes necropsy observations in patients with three types of cardiomyopathy: idiopathic, infiltrative, and endomyocardial disease. The idiopathic variety is subdivided into two types depending on the size of the ventricular cavity. In the dilated ventricular type the left ventricular wall is frequently less than 1.5 cm. thick, intracardiac thrombi are common, the atrioventricular valve rings usually are mildly dilated, and focal myocardial and endocardial scars are common. In the nondilated type (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy), the ventricular septum is usually thicker than the left ventricular free wall, which also is thick (greater than 1.5 cm.). When the septum is similar in thickness to the left ventricular free wall (symmetric), left ventricular outflow obstruction does not occur. When the septum is thicker than the left ventricular free wall (asymmetric), left or right ventricular outflow obstruction may or may not be present. The orientation of myocardial fibers one to another in the ventricular septum in the nondilated (hypertrophic) type is abnormal, whereas it is normal in the dilated ventricular type. Intracardiac thrombi are rare and atrioventricular valve rings are never dilated in the nondilated type of idiopathic cardiomegaly. The infiltrative types of cardiomyopathies include iron, calcium, lipids, mucopolysaccharides, granulomas, amyloid, and neoplasms. The first four usually are located within myocardial cells and the latter three, between myocardial cells. It is probable that all these myocardial infiltrates are capable of producing cardiac dysfunction, primarily on a restrictive basis. Endomyocardial disease may or may not be associated with eosinophilia. When the latter occurs, the eosinophils are structurally normal. Death is related to congestive cardiac failure. This category is actuality also in idiopathic.
The presence and levels of complement factors C3, C4, C5, and C3 proactivator, were determined by electroimmuno assay in gingival cervice material from five individuals with healthy gingiva and from six patients with chronically inflamed gingiva. Higher concentrations of C3 and C4 were found in samples from chronically inflamed gingiva when compared to those healthy gingiva. The amount of C3 in material from healthy as well as from inflamed gingiva was related to that in plasma, when the albumin in plasma and gingival crevice material was used as a reference. The same was found for C4 in samples from healthy gingiva but in those from inflamed gingiva, the values were significantly lower when related to plasma levels. C5 could not be found in material from healthy gingiva but was present in material from inflamed gingiva. C3 proactivator was present in material from inflamed gingiva in the converted form. No C3 proactivator was found in material from healthy gingiva with the methods used. Analysis of C3 in samples from inflamed gingiva, using crossed immunoelectrophoresis, showed that C3 was converted in these samples. The results indicate that the complement system may be activated in gingival crevice material from inflamed gingiva.
Degenerated cardiac muscle cells were present in hypertrophied ventricular muscle obtained at operation from 12 (38%) of 32 patients with asymmetric septal hypertrophy (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy) or aortic valvular disease. Degenerated cells demonstrated a wide variety of ultrastructural alterations. Mildly altered cells were normal-sized or hypertrophied and showed focal changes, including preferential loss of thick (myosin) filaments, streaming and clumping of Z band material, and proliferation of the tubules of sarcoplasmic reticulum. Moderately and severely degenerated cells were normal-sized or atrophic and showed additional changes, including extensive myofibrillar lysis and loss of T tubules. The appearance of the most severely degenerated cells usually reflected the cytoplasmic organelle (sarcoplasmic reticulum, glycogen, or mitochondria) which underwent proliferation and filled the myofibril-free areas of these cells. Moderately and severely degenerated cells were present in areas of fibrosis, had thickened basement membranes, and had lost their intercellular connections. These observations suggest that degenerated cardiac muscle cells have poor contractile function and may be responsible for impaired cardiac performance in some patients with chronic ventricular hypertrophy.
The pancreaticographic appearances of carcinoma of the pancreas have been divided into two types: Canalicular carcinoma arising from the duct system. If arising from the main pancreatic duct, it occludes this, or causes displacement or deformity of its branches in the immediate neighbourhood. If arising from branches, it causes cystic ectasia of the minor ducts; these appear fragmented and deformed while there is stenosis and displacement of the main duct. Simultaneous origin from the main and smaller ducts, as in the Gallert carcinoma, causes extreme lacunar ectasia of the minor ducts and occlusion of the main duct. Carcinoma arising from the acinar epithelium. This causes primarily displacement and the secondarily stenosis of the main duct. Accuracy of ERCP is satisfactory. It is limited by technical failure or difficulties due to the pathology preventing demonstration of the pancreatic duct. It is increased by cytological examination of aspirated pancreatic secretion. Difficulties in the differential diagnosis from chronic pancreatitis can be overcome. The possibility of an early diagnosis of the carcinoma presented by this method loses some of its impact because the patients are seen at a late stage and because of the lack of early symptoms of this disease.
Male albino rabbits were exposed to intermittent nitrogen breathing every 30 sec for 5 sec, 15 min daily over a period of 3 weeks, and every 30 sec for 5 sec over a period of 10 hr. A third group of animals was exposed continuously to 8% oxygen breathing for 2 weeks. Neither intermittent not continuous hypoxia induced gross or microscopic alteration in the aorta. The effects of hypoxia upg which hypoxia was distributed than upon the total period or the degree of hypoxia. Exposure to hypoxia over a short period stimulated the synthesis of glycosaminoglycans, whereas distribution of the hypoxia over a longer period resulted in a reduction in the amount of glycosaminoglycans, probably secondary to an inhibition of the synthesis. Similarly, continuous exposure to 8% oxygen for a longer period decreased the aortic content of collagen. The alterations in the glycosaminoglycans and collagen induced by hypoxia may cause changes in the passage of macromolecules through the aortic wall. The changes may also influence the mechanical properties of the aorta and lead to impaired healing of vascular injury.
A 63-year-old woman presented with progressive congestive heart failure and unexplained cardiomegaly. Diagnostic workup revealed large arteriovenous fistulae in the lower pole of the left kidney. A total left nephrectomy was performed and microscopic exam revealed renal cell carcinoma. Following surgery, the congestive heart failure cleared and the patient has been asymptomatic for one year. The pertinent findings of the 22 patients who have been reported previously in the literature with arteriovenous fistulae complicating renal cell carcinoma are reviewed. Thirty percent of the patients presented with cardiovascular complaints, and 60% had significant cardiovascular findings during the course of evaluation. An abdominal bruit was the most discriminating finding on physical exam, and it occurred in 72% of the reported cases. The diagnosis was unexpectedly established by surgery in 13%, and by angiography in 87% -- usually in the course of a workup for hypertension, abdominal pain, hematuria, or during search for an occult malignancy. An extensive evaluation is required for early diagnosis of this correctible cause of hypertension and heart failure.
The ultrastructural changes occurring in hypertrophic heart cases during severe experimental hypoxia, conducted intermittently for 140 and 250 hours, are reported in the present study. For this purpose, serial right myocardial specimens of control and treated groups of animals were obtained and examined by electron-microscopy. Most areas of the individual myocardial tissue taken during prolonged degrees of exposures to normobaric hypoxia, showed an increased number of mitochondria, their prominent destructive changes, enlargement of cisternae of sarcoplasmic reticulum, reduction and derangement of the cristae and an increase of glycogen and lipif droplets cellular content. Different responses were associated with the various experimental designs which include simple hypoxia, hypoxia with administration of Diphosphothiamine (DPT, 30 mg/hie/Kg body weight) and hypoxia with administration of an antagonist of the vitamin B1, neopyrithiamine (PyTh, 20 mg/die/Kg body weight). Alterations in the fine structure of myocardial cells and cellular organelles could complement the increased glycolitic activity and phospholipid biosynthesis for the compensatory mechanism of the heart to hypoxic stimulus. These changes were most evident in the hypoxic animals treated with PyTh because of a large disturbance of energy production caused by the antivitamin. Most of ultrastructural and glycogen content changes disappeared when DPT was administered to the animals in hypoxia. However, the mitochondria were larger in size and their matrices had higher electron density than in the normal control animals. The significance of the morphological and biochemical findings are discussed.
In order to assess possible adrenal-testicular interactions in vivo, adrenal and testicular plasma androgens (testosterone, delta4-androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) were measured by specific radioimmunoassays before and after stimulation with HCG in men with normal, dexamethasone suppressed and impaired adrenal function. It was found that men with Addison's disease, in whom circulating dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels amounted to 1/10 of normal values, had a decreased response of testosterone to HCG. Simultaneously, the Addison patients and the men under dexamethasone had only an increase of delta4-androstenedione but not of dehydroepiandrosterone, while normal men showed an almost equal increase in both precursors under HCG. The results are interpreted as demonstrating that the delta5-pathway in the testis becomes less important under adrenal suppression and in Addison's disease due to a lack of substrate (possibly dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) from the adrenals.
Numerous causes exist for disturbances in pulmonary ventilation in the newborn and infant. Amongst the exobronchic causes, those of cardiovascular origin are not rare. The difficulty in radiological diagnosis varies in relation with the anatomo-radiological appearance of the lesions and their aetiology. Ventilation disturbances are not always obvious. Simple techniques (high penetration films, oblique views, films in inspiration and expiration) make possible the topographical localisation of the lesions and the detection of any obstructive factor. These films should also be adequate as far as the aetiological diagnosis is concerned: severe left-right shunt, pulmonary valve agenesis, fibro-elastosis, retrotracheal left pulmonary artery. Obviously, angiocardiography is often necessary to confirm and accurately determine the nature of the "cardiovascular" lesion responsible. Such disturbances of pulmonary ventilation may either reveal or complicate a cardiac or vascular disorder in the newborn or infant. They often present marked therapeutic problems.
Definitive, if not curative surgery is available for the eight most common congenital cardiac defects-ductus arteriosus, ASD, coarctation, pulmonary valve stenosis, aortic valve stenosis, tetralogy of Fallot, and transposition. The results of surgery for uncomplicated cases of DA, ASD, VSD, and coarctation usually can be determined by clinical means (including chest radiogram and ECG). Postoperative heart catheterization is recommended for evaluation of the patient who has had surgery for pulmonary valve stenosis or artic stenosis and is necessary after tetralogy of Falot or transposition of the great arteries repair to identify the important postoperrative residua and sequelae. The term "curative" surgery probably shoud be reserved for operation for divion of ductus arteriosus unassociated with pulmonary hypertension and performed in childhood. After closure of ASD, patients should continue to be observed for late development of arrhythmias and persistent cardiac enlargement, although the incidence of these problems is low. After VSD closure the patient is still followed at intervals for possible ill effects of the ventriculotomy scar, manifest as arrhythmias, ventricular aneurysm or myocardial insufficiency. The patient with coarctation repair must be observed for a possible late complication from one of the several clinically silent cardiovascular or cerebrovascular anomalies as well as for the change of restenosis or unrelieved hypertension...
The radiographs of 21 patients with complete interruption of the aortic arch are reviewed, together with the literature, to emphasize characteristic radiographic features previously not recognized or discussed. In addition to the nonspecific radiologic findings of a left-to-right shunt through the invariably present ventricular septal defect, charateristic and unique features noted on chest radiograph and barium swallow that may suggest the diagnosis prior to catheterization include: a) a midline trachea; b) a hypoplastic ascending aorta with direct vertical ascent toward the neck; c) absence of the aortic "knob;" d) termination of the descending thoracic aortic shadow at the level of the main pulmonary artery; e) a "low arch" on lateral or left anterior oblique projections; and f) absence of the normal aortic impression on the barium-filled esophagus. Rib notching, when present, in association with the above findings indicates a stenotic or closed ductus arteriosus with collateral circulation through intercostal arteries to the descending aorta. The bilateral or unilateral location, right or left side, of the notching is dependent on the site of interruption and origin of the subclavian arteries and may permit differentiation into types and subtypes on chest radiograph.
Patients with mannosidosis, an inherited deficiency of lysosomal alpha-mannosidase, accumulate large amounts of mannose-rich oligosaccharides (the "core" of the carbohydrate units of many glocoproteins) in brain and liver and excrete these partial degradation products in their urine. A profound alpha-mannosidase deficiency was demonstrated in fibroblasts cultured from a skin biopsy obtained from a child with mannosidosis. Further, abnormal glycopeptides rich in mannose and similar to oligosaccharides found in the patient's urine were isolated from fibroblast extracts by a variety of chromatographic procedures and by virtue of their binding to a concanavalin A-Sepharose 4B affinity column. This storage material contained mannose, N-acetylglucosamine, and asparagine in the ratio 3 : 1 : 1 together with a few toher amino acids and had a molecular weight of approximately 1,100. There was no evidence for excretion of storage material by mannosidosis fibroblasts or for any abnormality in cell surface glycoprotein composition. The glycopeptide nature of the storage material isolated from cultured skin fibroblasts may be attributed to the low level of N-aspartyl-beta-glucosamindase (EC 3.5.1.-) activity in these cells.
Five patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), four of whom died with colonic perforations, are reported. Perforation of the colon constituted the most frequent cause of death among 107 patients with SLE admitted to the Rheumatic Disease Unit during a three year period. All five patients with colonic perforation had clinical and laboratory manifestations of active SLE in addition to the abdominal syndrome. Most striking was evidence of active arteritis in all patients with either central nervous system involvement and/or peripheral arteritis, in addition to that found in the gastrointestinal tract. Hyperglobulinemia and rheumatoid factor as well as antinuclear antibodies were present at some time in all patients. The abdominal syndrome was characterized by the insidious onset of lower quadrant pain which was intermittent and colicky. Although direct abdominal tenderness was eventually present in all patients, rebound tenderness and hypoactive bowel sounds were variable and abdominal rigidity occurred only in one patient and late in the course. The differential diagnosis of abdominal pain in SLE is reviewed and possible mechanisms for the production of colonic perforations are discussed. It is suggested that the presence of rheumatoid factors in conjunction with circulating immune complexes may be the pathogenetic mechanism via the production of a mesenteric arteritis.